In a moment, the table and everything upon it had disappeared. "That is
never before seen such a blaze of charms, was dazzled and enchanted.
the house while we are gone."
"Dear brother, do not drink," she began; but she was too late, for her
     Turned to a stag will be."
verdaderamente enamorada. Acepta por causas ajenas al amor; porque es
said to her, "Dear little sister, since our mother died we have not had
So when Two Eyes started with her goat, One Eye said to her, "I am going
this present is much below the notice of Princess Buddir al Buddoor; but
ranks, ready made, and a variety of fine stuffs, and bade Aladdin choose
consejo, pues los hombres siempre fueron y serán humildes esclavos de la
in the twinkling of an eye! there is not your fellow in the world; the
new lamp for this."
or inns where the merchants and travellers lodged, and afterward to the
the son of the vizier retired to the bedchamber prepared for them. No
and slept till morning.
error en una elección a gusto. Toda persona es feliz por tener lo que le
woman would go out to the little cage, and say: "Hansel, stick out your
"What shall we do now?" said the boy. "We cannot get across, and there
cause of it. I was foolish enough to change the old lamp for a new one,
the next stream I must drink, say what you will, my thirst is so great."
convivido. Reflexionad sobre esto, amigas mías...
himself, but conducted him to his mother, who, as soon as she saw him so
gold, she got their supper ready, and they were very happy together.
representación social, etc. «A Fulano le conviene Fulana». «A Fulana le
carried in a superb litter and attended by her women slaves, proceeded
with fatigue, and they fell fast asleep. When they awoke it was dark
las tantas formas de la exaltación fanática. Ahora bien: para
her finger, and three drops of blood fell into the snow. The red spots
es emoción indisciplinada, torbellino de sensaciones, exaltación sin
before.
When they saw Snow-white lying dead on the ground, they knew at once
cruel magician. Aladdin slept very soundly till late the next morning,
to poison a comb, so that whoever used it would fall dead. This the
diamonds, rubies, and emeralds composing the windows? But what most
"But remember," she said, "I must lock the cottage door against those
enojos, nada de sentirse molestada por la pertinacia, pues el ciego no
an old lamp which stood upon a shelf in my robing-chamber."
producirse. Todo el error de la casamentera deriva de creer que el amor
«ganchos» trascendentales merecieron la admiración y el aplauso de los
gold in the world."
Early in the morning Grethel was obliged to go out and fill the great
y el prestigio que le dan su gestión anterior. Arreglará las
and let the woman in, quite forgetting the advice of the dwarfs. After
care of, and played where he pleased, or roamed about the castle grounds
mother, wrapt up in a piece of silver tissue, and presented them all to
you."
when alive, strove all he could to teach him his trade, but could not
handfuls among the people as they went to the sultan's palace. The six
So they went out, and wandered over fields and meadows the whole day
para ver». Y luego agrega por cuenta propia: «discreción, hija mía,
alcanza con los años. Y aun es problemático, pues según un ironista
was too long, another too short; so she tried them all till she came to
profitable use of it, without making any great show, and exciting the
posture until he bade her rise, which she had no sooner done, than he
afflicted me so much as hearing of my brother's death. But God be
according to custom, in the street, with his evil associates, a stranger
Snow-white on the ground; but though they lifted her up, there were no
to give it to him till he was out of the cave. The African magician,
"Hush, Grethel," he whispered, "don't be so unhappy; I know what to do."
Very soon the full moon rose, and then Hansel took his little sister by
with his vizier, who suggested that the sultan should attach such
discover where he went. What was his surprise at seeing him go up to a
heard this she began to cry bitterly; but it was all useless, she was
the boldness of my petition, and to assure me of your pardon and
One Eye climbed up, but when she tried to catch a branch and pluck one
hair black as ebony.
the coffin-lid, raised herself and was again alive.
turbans, excited the greatest admiration in the spectators. As they had
Aladdin descended the steps, and, opening the door, found the three
handsome, but so proud and vain that she could not endure that anyone
brother in a son, who has his most remarkable features."
abandonada. La mamá de la señorita, con dulce melancolía, la recoge y la
a work." "I have more than are necessary," said the sultan; "come to my
give me the inside."
talk thus."
¿y?...» porque él también, como buen enamorado, era monosilábico, casi
mounted him, and went in the midst of a large troop of slaves to the
and then lifting it up above his head, signifying his willingness to
and fill it with gold and silver. Let there be also kitchens and
mounted that instant, thinking he could not make haste enough to the
His son, who was called Aladdin, was a very careless and idle fellow. He
cried; "I cannot harm thee."
gobierno, del oleaje de nuestras sensaciones. El naufragar o arribar a
Two Eyes kept on singing, she closed her one eye and fell fast asleep.
"Alas! child," said she, "what are you thinking of? You must be mad to
Nunca olvidaré el mal rato que sufrí ante la situación desairada e
be no other such in this palace, where every utensil was gold or silver.
del mundo.
induced the sultan to send a detachment of his guard, and to have
thunder, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave,
efectivo, lleno de devaneos y tormentosas pasiones, nos dice en unos
the shop told him he had not so many by him, but if he would have
moon rose. "You know, little sister," he said, "that I have thrown
naturalidad. Son, además, peligrosos, porque siempre andan a caza de
intend you. Know, then, that under this stone there is hidden a
magician. He drank it out of compliment to the princess to the very last
woman, but quite different from the last, she started off to travel over
of, and carried by the like number of black slaves, who shall be led by
se sorprende de que sus razonamientos no convenzan. No sabe que en
good success of which was of so great importance to his peace, that he
consecuencia, para unirse a un hombre, segura de que su sentimiento es
forma alguna, poniendo disculpas que lo eleven a sus propios ojos y
Grethel took the bread under her charge, for Hansel's pockets were full
unfastened the door, and slipped out The moon shone brightly, and the
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
de imaginación y de fantasía. Una criatura sin imaginación es como una
four large brass cisterns placed on each side, full of gold and silver;
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
At last the mother was impatient, and climbed up herself, but with no
encantamiento o autosugestión desaparecen cuando el juicio ajeno se
Hansel, opened the door of his cage, and cried, "Hansel, Hansel, we are
little Two Eyes; hide yourself somewhere, for we shall be quite ashamed
The princess obeyed to the utmost her husband's instructions. She
The slave returned, laughing so heartily that the princess rebuked her.
to him, and they were both very vehement in their complaints of the
contented and happy. In the evening, when she went home with the goat,
Let there be an inner and outer court in front of the palace, and a
the subterranean palace, are jewels of inestimable value, and fit fit
little crumbs, and stopped every now and then to drop one, turning round
done, transported him back to his own chamber, where he asked him if he
It happened that while all three sisters were standing under the tree
he cried.
stepmother, "What will become of us, for I cannot earn enough to support
provide for himself."
versos de su comedia «El mayor imposible», estas palabras razonables
find the appearances to declare that Aladdin, instead of dying in the
filosófica para sus años y su inexperiencia. Lo que ella se pregunta es:
and poured out the liquor, put it in your waistband and bring it to me.
"the omission was by design, since I wished that you should have the
aficionadas como ella a tramar enlaces y noviazgos. Para hacer el
then showed him the largest and finest mosques, carried him to the khans
a palace which he had seen plainly every day for some years, should
ten pieces of gold, with which Aladdin was very well satisfied.
money in the moonlight, and which Hansel had dropped as he walked,
forehead. The second had two eyes, like other people, and she was called
never stirs out of her little cell; and on those days on which she comes
him, "Take hold of the ring, and lift up that stone." "Indeed, uncle,"
  "Munching, crunching, munching,
"Oh dear," he said, "do let me go and see the hunt; I cannot restrain
afinidad de las almas, la adhesión recíproca de los corazones.
enchanted forest."
now come," said Aladdin, "from a man who says he is my uncle and my
had never been used to such traffic, told him he would trust to his
As soon as the sun was risen, the stepmother came and woke the two
the beginning to the rising of the divan; what business brings you
elección de esposa, no debe ser una lotería. «Saqué novio de tal baile»
could tell him anything of it. On the third day he wandered into the
apellido heredado y cree que su nombre procérico basta para lograr la
with you to-day to see if the goat gets her food properly while you are
agreeable to the princess, and with the greater confidence since he has
sabios, estampó la unidad a la izquierda de todos los ceros que había
the foot, so that he was obliged to hide himself in the bushes, and,
was impressed with his good looks and dignity of manner, which were so
"and immediately there will be a pretty little table before you full of
el amor tiene mayores garantías de éxito cuando emplea los cien ojos de
The mother took them from her, and gave them to her sisters, as she said
from his throne ordered that the princess's attendants should come and
es difícil señalarlas todas. Desde luego, muchas veces tiene la culpa la
The wicked queen felt sure now that she had really killed Snow-white; so
stretched out her hand from the window and took the poisoned half. But
in search of water.
they had been left alone in the wood.
companions, and so the night passed away.
envy and jealousy of our neighbours. However, since the genies frighten
heart to leave my children all alone in the wood, where the wild beasts
before him, he would not hear a word from him, but ordered him to be put
powder. On drinking it he will instantly fall asleep, and we will obtain
inquired:
colours."
steps, with a design to get into the palace, but the door, which was
  "Little goat, if you're able,
"Child, come here; I will show you how to lace your stays properly."
Aladdin, "I command thee to transport this palace instantly to the place
meterle en la historia.
as his brother, always carried a geomantic square instrument about him;
Again they warned her not to let anyone enter the house during their
todo esto con espíritu observador e informativo, con intención fiscal, a
that you obey me punctually, if you would reap the advantages which I
for her to eat and drink.
Snow-white thanked him so sweetly, and was out of sight in a few
THE MAGIC MIRROR
She looked so innocent and beautiful as she knelt, that the hunter's
    "The wind, the wind,
que ama profundamente no verse amado por aquella a quien ama. Pero aun
followed the fawn the day before, "Come and show me the little cottage."
your uncle. Your worthy father was my own brother. I knew you at first
her eyes. Once, in the midst of her sorrow she looked up, and saw a
formado por un amor enardecido y apasionado, como otro tibio, suave,
after the huntsmen were gone, limp slowly home.
the door open and no one at home.
speech to the goat, and the table came with all the good things on it,
of light they saw that some one had been there, for everything did not
El lunarcillo y el ricito son invencibles; nada, nada, ¡invencibles!...
of his cage, which she thought was his finger, for she could not see;
the lamp, whose slaves will do all our bidding, and restore us and the
assumed a look of pleasure on the next visit of the magician, and asked
request, and promised to go early in the next morning to the palace of
had conceived, he made more minute inquiries, and requested to be
can."
king. The coffin was placed on the side of the mountain, and each of
out alone, to gather moss and dried leaves, to make him a soft bed.
La psicología de la casamentera es, en el fondo, sencilla. Su norma es
felt safe, for they believed that their father was working near them.
va haciendo paulatinamente su obra, predisponiendo los espíritus y
acepta con gusto cuando conocemos bien la sociedad y todo el tejido de
stones. "These are better than pebbles," said Hansel; and he filled his
had passed through several degrees of heat, he came out quite a
fiercely, and said: "Creep in there, and see if it is hot enough yet to
conciso en su expresión, monosilábico, casi mudo. La palabra muere en el
Siempre, claro está, usando palabras corteses; nada de desaires, nada de
This stranger was a sorcerer, known as the African magician, as he had
mother and child into their power.
than this Aladdin, who is an entire stranger to your majesty."
Saber convivir... He ahí el secreto del buen matrimonio. Dar normas
obliged to do as the wicked witch told her.
great mob crowding about him, sent one of her women slaves to know what
The next morning she repaired to the sultan's palace with the present,
of the genie of the wonderful lamp!
property. At this moment little Two Eyes, who was angry because her
After the feast, the sultan sent for the chief cadi, and commanded him
They had gone but a very short distance when Hansel looked back at the
them made a false step and stumbled. This shook the coffin, and caused
día. Paseando a esa hora por la estancia, ha confundido alguna vez el
ironista diciendo: «los hombres sólo aciertan cuando se enloquecen».
designios providenciales que rigen el nacimiento del amor en nuestro
discharged itself by a lion's mouth of bronze into a basin, pretending
dance till she fell dead on the floor, a sad example of envy and
angry, and had the witch and her daughter brought to justice. They were
beg that the private door may be opened at the first knock."
clever enough to resist her clever wicked stepmother, and she forgot to
así. Con relación a la galería, el procedimiento es más breve y
both by the hands as she spoke, and led them into the house. She gave
by you to insure success. In the mean time, I shall disguise myself, and
run away into the wild wood, and never, never come home any more."
and was carried away when Two Eyes had eaten enough; and the cunning
sobre la exaltación amorosa:
sentidos. «¡Te amo!». Es una frase de novela, excesiva, afectada. «Te
muy solicitada, la cual evita bailar muy seguido con el mismo caballero,
The sultan returned to the palace, and after this went frequently to the
convertirse en confidente de cada una de las personas que trata de
handsomely as the best merchants in the city, and afterward we will open
When he was old enough to learn a trade, his father took him into his
He bounded off as she spoke, scarcely stopping to listen, for it was so
desgracia, se va haciendo, se va tramando en la convivencia, en la vida
precisamente lo último en formarse. La mente es impotente para regir la
they were obliged to beg their bread from door to door.
window which several workmen had been so long about was finished in so
"Indeed, uncle," answered Aladdin, "I cannot now, but I will as soon as
exigía. Bueno, amigas mías, entonces supe que es posible no morirse de
However, he appeared very friendly, and after a little talk he held out
emplea mucha retórica, muchos requilorios, circunloquios y rodeos,
fanatizarse es necesario que el espíritu esté formado y que nuestras
house, uncle, than any we have yet seen," By this artifice, the cunning
momento determinado, un sentido trascendental, de unidad de vidas, de
of the same metal, which contained the most delicious viands; six large
En el fondo la casamentera viene a ser, con sus repetidas ponderaciones
  "Little goat, when you're able,
choice that the marriage was soon after celebrated with great pomp and
safety, and to treat her with the utmost possible respect. At break of
As soon as this apple was ready, the wicked queen painted her face,
Poor man, he had not had a moment's peace since the children had been
no farther; so they laid themselves down under a tree and went to sleep.
what she has to say." The grand vizier made answer by lowering his hand,
palace, and you shall choose what may answer your purpose."
people, and was named little Two Eyes.
nunca pueda creerse engañado en sus observaciones respecto al estado
I am up." The African magician was determined that he would have the
sobre sus dones físicos. No confío mucho en ver seguido este piadoso
La popular frase transcripta encierra las principales virtudes de la
gloria de unirse a él. La vanidad es un lente que aumenta las cosas más
"With your leave, mother," replied Aladdin, "I shall now take care how I
have built in this city, with all the people in it, to Africa." The
man! do you not know it? Follow me, and I will show you." The sultan
lift this stone, or enter the cave; so you must punctually execute what
apron full.
Y es que Don Juan no es un verdadero enamorado. Balvo, un filósofo
A los diez y ocho o veinte años la mujer se impresiona fácilmente. Pero
to his sister, "Cheer up, Grethel; I dare say we shall find our way home
they went to the storehouses, which were filled with all things
little while, and there shall no harm happen to you." She seized them
the world besides, dear little Snow-white, and you must come with me to
your answer immediately," said she; and then added, laughing, "I believe
The good creature did as the children wished; she carried Grethel over
rest of their lives.
extravagance; but I must tell you once more, that I am resolved to
countenance the good news she brought to her son. "My son," said she,
till he gets fat; and then I shall cook him and eat him!" When Grethel
Entre observaciones, besos y mimos, la señorita, llena de alegría y de
justificada desde luego, porque la señorita es linda, le produce una
publicadas en la página femenina de "LA PRENSA" me ha inducido a
"This is wonderful," exclaimed the knight, "that the tree should belong
up, and rubbing it, the genie immediately appeared. "Genie," said
efectivo de nuestro espíritu y de nuestra voluntad.
the carpet, prostrated themselves, touching the carpet with their
Han existido y existen, sin embargo, hombres casamenteros que lograron
sultan her father. He then laid himself down beside her, putting a drawn
But Hansel comforted her. "Don't fear," he said; "let us wait a little
joining his hands to pray he rubbed the ring which the magician had put
with all the precaution the fear of death could inspire, crossed the
confidence the inhabitants reposed in each other. By this means the
pudiera inducir al lector. No se refiere el epígrafe a la respetable
the two purses in which he had kept them, and placed them in order,
one of Aladdin's, saying, "It is a talisman against all evil, so long as
Little Two Eyes went home quickly, and said to her sister, "Dear sister,
himself entirely over to his idle habits, and was never out of the
sent her into the wood with the hunter, who had spared her life, and
his word and will. When he found that his attempt had failed, he set out
inclinadas a ejercer de casamenteras. Como no han usado su corazón,
herir al marido en aquello en que cifra su amor propio. Téngase en
horoscope by which to ascertain Aladdin's fate, what was his surprise to
Aladdin got up trembling, and with tears in his eyes said to the
the vizier, the sultan replied to the mother of Aladdin: "Good woman, it
When evening came, and the poor sister felt tired, she would kneel down
way was lined with files of spectators. Nothing, indeed, was ever seen
she often throws them nice pieces to eat. Heaven pity us! Oh, if our
long before she came to herself. "Mother," said Aladdin, "be not afraid:
The African magician regarded not their scoffs, hootings, or all they
from a city, and placing him exactly under the window of the princess's
will not be sorry to find a new one in its stead. If the princess
matrimonios de estas gestiones de las casamenteras. Pero también es
foot of the throne, untied it, and presented it to the sultan.
   But Snow-white will be
patience till the next day, he would have them ready. The magician
she made the attempt, and, do what she would, she could not reach one.
"by the power of the ring, to transport me to the spot where my palace
cordial y lucido. Y ha de prestar, sobre todo una atención vigilante y
in your hair; it is so fine it will make it beautifully smooth and
resounded through the forest, and were heard by the stag, who became
Grethel. They had very little to live upon, and once when there was a
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
find what had been an unoccupied garden filled up with a magnificent
stone which had closed the mouth of the staircase moved into its place,
negociaciones que requieren las delicadezas y sutiles arbitrios de las
had seen in the field. "I saw it all with one eye," she said; "for she
Una mujer sólo a los 25 años se halla en aptitud mental y espiritual
tiene hermosísimos, aunque ven poco. ¿Para qué contradecirle? ¿Para qué
"I cannot help weeping," she replied; "for because I have two eyes, like
in danger, and told her not to show herself, for her stepmother would
voluntad terne, un carácter terco. A la mujer no debe costarle ceder. La
nuestros, también él--si no es una mala persona--quitará los suyos,
full price, put them into a basket hanging on his arm, and went directly
jealousy, because little Two Eyes was the only one who could reach the
al mismo caballero una «planchadora» toda la noche. Por eso conviene que
home; and on her arrival said, with much simplicity, "Son, I have seen
state went in to take their seats in the divan, where the sultan always
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
carried the present to the sultan, to walk by my side and follow me, and
dealing; and doubting whether Aladdin understood the material or the
"Little Two Eyes," said the wise woman, "I will give you some good
me immediately they retire to their bedchamber."
Aladdin did not confine himself in his palace, but went with much state,
a shop as I mentioned."
for new ones?" He repeated this so often, walking backward and forward
wood-cutter, who had two children--a boy named Hansel, and his sister,
himself so much with his fruit that he could not well get at it, refused
But the good sister received them most kindly, and promised to take care
most beautiful in the land, it replied:
sultan consented with pleasure, rose up immediately, and, preceded by
to you, and yet you are not able to gather even a branch."
buen puerto depende entonces, no de la seguridad de nuestra brújula,
But the mirror answered:
Pero los poetas han llenado el mundo de bellas mentiras, sonoras
solitaria, viene a tener una familia, un poco postiza, es verdad, pero
Snow-white still lived. So she sat and pondered over these facts,
of water touched his lips he became a fawn. How the little sister wept
The sultan having opened the door, went to the bedside, kissed the
cuando él mismo las necesite alguna vez, preferirá recurrir al auxilio
Bella es en el cielo la hora del alba. Bellísima es en el alma la aurora
the sultan's daughter, to-night? She will presently return from the
huracanada. El «no» a un hombre así ha de ser gradual, no repentino, no
bearing, elegant form, and wonderful likeness of each slave; their grave
afterward all the four-and-twenty; but when he was convinced that the
sorrow and grief. He at once ordered a horse to be saddled, which he
sociología, diciendo que suele haber más «planchadoras» entre las feas o
ambiente, digamos así, que todo el circulo de relaciones ha creado a la
her own food, and sweet fresh grass for the fawn, which he ate out of
con todas las ventajas y ninguno de los inconvenientes de la verdadera.
could speak only the truth.
brother had already knelt by the stream to drink, and as the first drop
el gancho mortal de la casamentera.
bath; and these officers whom you see are to assist at the cavalcade to
sultan, fearful of an insurrection, was obliged to grant him his life.
depends; to execute this design it is necessary for me to go to the
arms, saying, "You are my own beloved wife, as beautiful as ever."
me with you, and release me, I should be so happy."
un apellido histórico, sino los que, llevando uno desconocido, logran
to him, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave;
lo que quede de la juvenil exaltación espiritual y del ardor de los
knowing that this would be so, had already given his commands to the
and as he had given way to her the first time, he could not refuse to do
instantly opened, and oh, how glad his sister was to see him safely
tortoise-shell comb which she had poisoned.
fortuna.
"What!" cried the woman, "are you afraid it is poisoned? Look here now,
he would take him to spend that day in the country, and on the next he
did not understand.
una torcida contextura ingénita de nuestro espíritu.
myself just before him; but he was so much taken up with those who
himself came in, and was surprised to find her, whom he knew as his
together a young knight rode by. "Run away, quick, and hide yourself,
demand the princess of the sultan in marriage; nor do I despair of
they reached the thickest and densest part of the forest, where they had
began his march, and though he never was on horseback before, appeared
acierto electivo en este caso está librado al azar, a que la casualidad
affection Aladdin had secured by his largesses and charities, that the
house. Even the little dogs under the table fare better than we do, for
"Now you are beautiful indeed," said the woman, and, fancying she heard
stepped forward and pretended to put her head in the oven.
full value of what he offered to sell, took a piece of gold out of his
"This palace is one of the wonders of the world; for where in all the
officers and slaves, habited according to their rank and the services to
resorted to a long course of magic ceremonies, and had formed a
a butcher's knife, went out, and stuck the good little goat in the
Snow-white, went to her looking-glass and asked:
CHAPTER II
said she to him, "I have sent to have the private door opened for you;
algunas apropiadas al caso. «La señorita silenciosa parece mejor que la
When it was quite dark the masters of the house came home. They were
other guests, to the wedding-feast. Before she left her house she stood
esta dificultad aumenta, según va dicho, cuando con nuestra frivolidad y
him farther, to execute his design, he took an opportunity to sit down
chooses, she may have the pleasure of trying if this old man is so silly
world was so beautiful as the sultan my father's palace, but the sight
thought that he had not killed her was as if a stone-weight had been
Every morning she went out to gather dried roots, nuts, and berries, for
nuestras palabras como nuestros brazos en las horas de deliquio:
music led the procession, followed by a hundred state ushers, and the
His mother was much surprised to see the great tray, twelve dishes, six
any great advance in their work. They came again several times for more,
would have fallen at his feet, held him by the hand, and made him sit
"We will go now," he said, "and get away as soon as we can from this
another street or two, he walked till he came to one of the city gates,
es responsable de no ver, y hasta merece simpatía cuando observamos que
exchange old lamps for new ones?" As he went along, a crowd of children
reached it, and the boy was just stooping to drink, when the sister
twenty more to go before me in two ranks. Besides these, bring my mother
had received from the sultan's own mouth; and that she was to come to
with the greatest love.
But how surprised were the boy and girl, when they came nearer, to find
"Sire, I pray you to let me know the crime by which I have thus lost the
brother lived so long, and ended his days."
to become so beautiful as herself, so she stepped up to her mirror and
his pockets. From this moment all his care and sorrow was at an end, and
Oh! how the poor little sister grieved when she was forced to draw the
lamp, the owner of which would be made richer than any earthly ruler,
determined, if possible, to prevent the marriage.
atraer y sugestionar con el encanto de sus dones físicos y el hechizo de
verdaderamente ella quiere; no pocas veces también por divertirse, por
materia de psicología femenina, para los cuales no basta que la mujer
con suerte y bailes con desgracia. He aquí un fenómeno superior a
otros no lo tenemos? Misterio. Quizá se deba a que la belleza de la
night, as the most suitable time for the design he had in contemplation.
trifulcas domésticas. Juzgará sin apelación e impondrá la paz, porque
when the first thing he said to his mother was, that he wanted something
were in bed. "The times are as bad as ever," she said; "we have just
discípulo que estaba enamorado. El novio, lleno de entusiasmo, refería
hidrófobo; algo, en fin, absurdo y horrible. Cuéntase que uno de los
So the children remained alone till mid-day, and then Grethel shared her
not whether the princess may have observed it, but there is an old one
"I will carry some home too," said Grethel, and she held out her apron,
While they were talking, the fawn came bounding in, looking quite well
But the mirror replied:
igualitario por ministerio de las planchadoras.
So they went to the house, and little Two Eyes again left the scraps on
dependa de esta burla de la mujer. Porque deplorable es para un hombre
ocurrido no hace muchos años a una amiga mía, perteneciente a una de
cañamazo dado por la naturaleza y bordado por la imaginación. Ahora
de un pedagogo argentino agrega: «Pero hay que ser también «paqueta» por
confianza, a los cuales pueda pedir el servicio de que bailen a las
"Oh, mother," said the boy, "I can see my little white cat sitting on
his good wishes to his daughter. The grand vizier's son, who was almost
casamentero. La pareja se encuentra unida sin saber cómo, y aquella
  "Queen, thou art the fairest here,
want anything else."
the queen herself. So the proud woman went to her magic looking-glass,
suspicion of wrong. Hansel, who found the cake on the roof taste very
Aladdin, enraptured with this news, made his mother very little reply,
Ya la señorita está ataviada: un traje primoroso realza su figura:
the merchants and artisans had their particular streets according to
I will eat the other."
Early the next morning the stepmother came and pulled the children out
cortedad».
Then said the mother to little One Eye, "Climb up, my child, and break
which astonished him. The genie helped him to dress, and when he had
apples. Are they not beautiful? let me make you a present of one."
forward, and found all their beds in the same condition. But when the
him leave in company with Aladdin should make inquiries after the youth.
was opened by a treasurer, where Aladdin saw large vases of different
conyugal. Y suele nacer de nimiedades, de intolerancias, de tozudeces
irascible. Seductora es la belleza, atrayentes la espiritualidad y el
cask, and the knight was astonished to find her so beautiful.
Two Eyes had eaten anything in the field; for she said to excuse
"Follow that stag about, but don't hurt him." So they hunted him all
fiercely.
said the shortest grace she knew--"Pray God be our guest for all time.
As he left the next morning he saw the coffin on the mountain-side, with
The genie immediately disappeared. Aladdin went out of the hall, and
counted every day, week, and even hour as it passed. When two of the
replied Aladdin, "I am not strong enough; you must help me." "You have
la causa de su ceguera está en que el foco del corazón le ofusca la
standing by their beds; and when she saw how beautiful they looked in
dear wife?"
nunca es tenido en cuenta por la casamentera. A su juicio, siendo
yellow; in short, there was fruit of all colours. The white were pearls;
to see an old man with a basket on his arm, full of fine new lamps,
Termino. Me he extendido demasiado. Pero téngase en cuenta que la
from one corner to another and make we wear their old clothes, and give
him. "Sire," said the sultaness, "I will go and see her; she will not
the father lived in happiness with his children till his death.
genie appeared. "Genie," said Aladdin, "convey me at once to a bath, and
over, that they might watch for any signs of decay, and they wrote in
find it when I want it. The ring I cannot resolve to part with; for
for our dinner." "Mother," replied Aladdin, "keep your cotton for
then took Aladdin into the apartment from whence he was wont to look at
Another female slave hearing this, said, "Now you speak of lamps, I know
it had just come from the kitchen. Then little Two Eyes sat down and
aburrida y tediosa.
todas las cruces, menos la del matrimonio--con lo cual su santidad
mundo. Y un tumulto de ideas, mejor dicho, de imaginaciones--porque,
representación interna que de nuestra propia figura teníamos. De estas
those he preferred, which he paid for.
sucede que de un buen consejo resulte algo bueno».
four-and-twenty windows of this hall imperfect, and thou hast executed
where the king's beautiful horse waited for him.
joy, that the tree had followed her.
"Come, children, gather some wood, and I will make a fire, for it is
from whence it was brought hither." The genie bowed his head in token of
fatigues. When he came to the capital of China, he took a lodging at a
dressed with foliage, silks, and carpeting, and every one striving to
cuanto más alta y sólida sea la atalaya de observación desde la cual se
adventure, and concluded by declaring, "I love the princess more than I
trouble in trying to do as they offered; but all to no purpose, for the
que parecía movido por todo el carbón que emplea ahora la escuadra
When little Two Eyes saw this, she went out into the field, seated
The sultan hearkened to this discourse without showing the least anger;
In the mean time the festivities in honour of the princess's marriage
placed herself always directly before the sultan, but with as little
wished for in the world."
gather some more of the bright pebbles to let fall as he walked, that
intervenciones se aviene mejor con el espíritu de la mujer. El hombre
daughter, went to the bath and returned.
    "Whoever drinks of me, a tiger soon will be."
child, his body lightsome and free; and when he returned into the hall,
mediocridad goza siempre el género de dicha que impera en el Limbo.
tormento. Y nada resuelve el divorcio; porque, como ha dicho un
softening, "do not be afraid; for I shall not ask anything of you, but
as early as the day before; but when she came there, she found the gates
     Who is most beautiful of all?"
In one of the large and rich cities of China, there once lived a tailor
las dichas futuras, un porvenir venturoso; hacen grandes apologías de él
so beautiful and brilliant in the sultan's palace, and the richest robes
it; but when they found it happened every day, they said one to the
But the prince answered, "Let me have it as a gift, then. I know not
getting your livelihood. There are many sorts of trades; perhaps you do
his wealth and honours. Shortly after her departure, Aladdin, mounting
as hers, and arraying himself in her garb, taking her veil, the large
para elegir o aceptar esposo--porque no siempre se puede elegir. Sólo
branches, nor the fruit, near enough to pluck even a leaf, for they
to throw handfuls of money among the people as he passed through the
his hand, and hastened to the palace, which he entered at once by the
Now, the stepmother of these poor children was a wicked witch. She had
magnificence, replied without hesitation to the words of Aladdin's
son," said he, "what a man you are to do such surprising things always
watching the rest."
He had not run far when the king's chief hunter caught sight of the
cordial, sosegado. Todo depende de la hondura con que luego, en la vida
and were introduced into the sultan's presence; where the chief jeweller
he called the others, who came quickly, and holding their lights over
jasper, agate, lapis lazuli, and the finest marble. Let its walls be
before the sultan's throne, the black slaves laid the golden trays on
became quite worn out, and could not sleep for hours, but lay thinking
of black ebony, and as she worked, and the snow glittered, she pricked
actitud que podría inducir a la concurrencia en el error de suponer un
and seeing Aladdin, immediately opened it. The noise of opening the
off a piece of the gingerbread, he began to eat with all his might, for
matrimonio, que es igualmente otra serie de concesiones.
could not see very well; but she had a very keen scent, as wild animals
disguised her hair, dressed herself as a farmer's wife, and went again
that it was his son-in-law's palace. Joy and gladness succeeded to
las otras, a las señoritas que, en sentido figurado, se aplica este
performed such wonders, and, piqued to the quick at Aladdin's high
then with the money you make of them you can lay in fresh goods, and
The words were scarcely spoken, when a beautiful little table stood
command transported the couch with the bride and bridegroom on it, by
filósofo--claro que un filósofo feminista--el divorcio es la disolución
Then he related to her all that had happened, and what the little dwarfs
Aladdin.
estate, he returned to the khan.
una decisiva influencia en el espíritu de los futuros contrayentes, que
El origen de nuestras desventuras en la vida está en que la sensibilidad
"Ah!" she replied, "I must weep. The goat, who every day spread my table
all sorts of good things for you to eat, as much as you like. And when
in glee, "I shall have the lamp, and I shall make Aladdin return to his
streets from his companions. This course he followed till he was fifteen
history of some of his companions, and when he had learnt all he desired
Presently the wise woman stood again before her, and said, "Little Two
left unfinished) be enriched with diamonds, rubies, and emeralds, so
father's house, and they determined to try once more to find their way
Hay otros que llamaremos «intrépidos», muy expeditivos en sus
when she had finished she said:
casamentera entre las señoras que entre los hombres. Este género de
When all the money was spent, Aladdin had recourse again to the lamp. He
Thirsty as he was, the brother conquered his desire to drink at her
ashamed of it, I despair of his ever coming to any good. For my part, I
merchant what was the meaning of all this preparation of public
When Aladdin's mother had taken all these precautions, for fear of the
and received him at the foot of the great staircase, helping him to
than common folks, with your two eyes; you don't belong to us."
"Go away, go away; I must not let you in."
me forty days, and if in that time I cannot restore it, I will offer my
Now, when the two sisters saw little Two Eyes carried away by the
certain powder, which he named.
"Look at this, then," said the woman; "you shall have it for your own if
of a tree, and singing so beautifully that they stood still to listen.
en que, usando la pompa verbal de Víctor Hugo, «el amor es la
success. I have the slaves of the lamp and of the ring to help me, and
Not far off ran a pretty streamlet, looking clear and bright; but here
and perceiving a peasant going into the country, hastened after him; and
six windows, and let the lattices of these (except one, which must be
After the wicked queen had proved, as she thought, that Snow-white was
Aladdin's consent, transported him in a moment to the palace he had
heard in the babbling of the brook:
lanzan a volar.
su psicología. Ninguna persona, y menos aún una señorita, naturalmente
y reflexiva calma.
happen to us, Hansel?"
and goldsmiths attended; upon which he returned to the hall, and showed
three months were passed, his mother one evening, having no oil in the
de nuestra orientación reflexiva.
Aladdin, amazed at all he saw and heard, forgot what was past, and
rage. "Snow-white shall die," cried she, "if it costs me my own life!"
provisions I had in the house yesterday; but I have a little cotton
buen partido, porque quiere emparentar bien, etc., etc. El amor, como
ones.
cuya psicología es complejísima. Sólo he querido divagar un momento
hombres rompen los eslabones de una cadena de hierro; en cambio hallan
enternecido, paga con un beso mudo la intención de mi aquiescencia. Y
the court, according to their rank and dignity, sat at different tables.
length reached a lonely spot, where he stopped till the darkness of the
in two, till Snow-white began to breathe a little, and after a time was
Snow-white to be careful. While the maiden was alone they knew she was
hopes, nevertheless, that your majesty will accept of it, and make it
hunters, he could not rest. "Oh, dear sister, I must go once more; it
quiet, buried it in the ground outside the house-door, as the wise woman
pueblos, que siguen venerando la memoria de aquellos insignes
apropiados al caso. El concurso, la gente de un salón, que ve bailar, no
    Forzados de un amor loco,
para demostrar que no debe mantenerse contradicción en cosas sin
magician led Aladdin some way into the country; and as he meant to carry
his hiding-place, and went home. His mother perceived him to be more
Alguna vez se «plancha» sin ser «planchadora»; un «planchado» fortuito,
"Oh, if I only had a little child, I should like it to be as fair as
dama que ofrece la fiesta. A este respecto contaré un triste episodio
raven, and at last the dove. Snow-white lay for a long, long time in the
hand; but I believe you did not hear him, for I think you fainted as
apples and nuts; and when evening came, Hansel and Grethel were shown
since his cries could not be heard. He descended to the bottom of the
here?"
difícil. Los místicos, los santos, que todos fueron solteros, aceptando
que imprime las tristes huellas de la decadencia; y la imaginación
amethysts; and the yellow, sapphires. Aladdin, ignorant of their value,
a mere trifle, and will prove no bar to my marriage with the princess. I
Pero dejemos los demás fanatismos para ocuparnos del fanatismo amoroso,
thoughts, pulled out his purse, and showing him some gold, asked for
de su ingenio.
with a saddle, bridle, and other caparisons to correspond with his
  Come and clear away my table."
sooner heard the knocking at the door than he got out of bed, and ran
On saying this the wise woman vanished.
little Two Eyes was sent into the fields to take care of the goats, and
stood a small table, covered with a snow-white table-cloth, ready for
Aladdin. On her arrival Aladdin was ready to receive her at the
During this interval, Aladdin frequented the shops of the principal
estas condiciones grandes tormentos y agobiadoras melancolías. La
"What!" cried the mother, "was your lamp then the occasion of that
that surpasses in beauty and goodness the best in the sultan's stables;
to return to Africa, but avoided the town, lest any person who had seen
out of the cottage:
and this you saw, called himself the slave of the lamp you had in your
you obey me. Go, therefore, boldly, and we shall both be rich all our
myself and you, much less the children? what shall we do with them, for
which he had gathered when he took the lamp were, instead of coloured
particular notice of what she did, and discover if anything was brought
little Two Eyes; for she must eat and drink secretly."
Yo me casé a los 25 años. Antes de conocer a mi marido, aficionado, como
Pero descendiendo de la historia a la vida corriente, mortal y vulgar,
bad company, and to seek that of wise and prudent men, to improve by
nobody shall hurt you."
sultan."
to take a horoscope and ascertain his brother's proceedings. He, as well
in the world, he made the best of his way home. When he got within his
hautboys, and all kinds of music, to a magnificent entertainment, at
"No, wife," said the man, "that I will never do. How could I have the
mace-bearer, and when she reached the sultan bowed her head down to the
that he was mistaken, and examined the two windows on each side, and
cimientos, mal se sostendrán las torres y chapiteles de nuestros
femenina.
for the greatest monarchs. All the precious stones the jewellers have in
telling him the price was a piece of gold. Aladdin put the money into
So Snow-white, thinking no wrong, stood before the woman to have her
his hand to her, and said, "Wilt thou go with me to my castle and be my
personalidad, su diferenciación de las demás señoritas que también se
As he thus spoke the good little dwarfs were full of sympathy for him,
one happy hour. Our stepmother gives us dry hard crusts for dinner and
Las casamenteras ponen mucho empeño y mucha tenacidad en sus empresas.
by partaking of an entertainment in your apartments. Before he leaves,
the clear and transparent, diamonds; the deep red, rubies; the paler,
Eye, and said, "Little One Eye, you are a clever one to watch goats;
something more." She took some fine sand and water to clean it; but had
ven la intervención providencial, el destino, el hado, donde sólo hubo
The next day the magician learnt, from the chief superintendent of the
now grown a charming young woman, and richly dressed in royal robes! Her
patience. At last I believe he was heartily tired, for he rose up
no podía ser más violenta y desairada. Levantarse e irse, atravesando el
value, returned through the three halls with the utmost precaution, and
Then said the first, "Who has been sitting in my little chair?"
you will find it will come easily." Aladdin did as the magician bade
had rosy cheeks, and hair as black as ebony; and they gave her the name
Pero no todas las feas «planchan». No pocas de ellas se ven tan
"and it will vanish from your eyes."
seventh approached his bed, and saw Snow-white lying there fast asleep,
hair dressed; but no sooner had the comb touched the roots of her hair
Now it happened that the stepmother of Snow-white was invited, among
THE STORY OF ALADDIN; OR, THE WONDERFUL LAMP
they tried in every way to restore her; they tried to extract the poison
Todo es grato al lado de una mujer dulce: todo es amargo al lado de una
finest silver, and asked him if he had sold such as that to the Jew;
that his plate would fetch by weight sixty pieces of gold, which he
De estos encuentros nace a veces un principio de simpatía, que las
suelen ser las más desgraciadas; pues si bien la mente lúcida y el
ideas estén muy hechas, muy elaboradas. Ni el tierno doncel, como si
stand in the order in which they had left it.
escribir: «cero». (La dote, pensaría probablemente el filósofo, es la
internacional. Aconsejan, señalan las ventajas de la unión, presentan
ofenden más que las acciones, el tono más que las palabras y el aire más
nosotros mismos. No malogremos el don de la vida que Dios quiso
de nuestra voluntad, sino de la Providencia. Saber vivir depende de
me."
ilusiones, se dispone a presentarse en sociedad.
gigantic size appeared before her, and said to her in a voice of
mother was dead, and their father had married again a woman who was most
presentan en sociedad, adquieren un relieve preponderante y definitivo.
sentirse herido en su amor propio con burlas imperdonables. Jamás, en
she said:
el último abrazo en la hora de la muerte.
comb in her hair they pulled it out quickly, and Snow-white very soon
negarse a la relación solicitada. En esta ocasión es cuando ha de
had called them thither.
the lamp first," replied the magician; "it will be troublesome to you,"
he was very hungry. Grethel seated herself on the doorstep, and began
When Aladdin gave these commands to the genie, the sun was set. The next
Then they lay quite still till their parents were asleep.
make him so, or if he was ill. He then told his mother all his
humiliation. The lords who had courted him in the days of his splendour,
me be left alone, while I endeavour to transport you back to China as
es una frase corriente entre las muchachas. No, no; no hay que sacarse
You have only to say to your own goat:
of the plate. Aladdin, taking the money very eagerly, retired with so
buena parentela».--«Cero».--«Buena educación».--«Cero». El enamorado
filósofo, el pintor, el músico, los artistas, en general, son
therefore, I hope you will give me leave to keep it, and to wear it
door, and he could not open it. When he went back to his bed he told his
which was to last for eight days, of which only three had expired. The
and watched."
each could furnish, they returned, and presented themselves before the
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
proclaimed, commanding the people to shut up their shops and houses, and
La elección debe fundarse en múltiples y atentas observaciones del
Aladdin, had a younger brother, who was as skilful a magician as
casamentera armoniza a su gusto cualidades, tendencias, fortunas,
took him aside, and pulling out the plate, asked him if he would buy it.
desde la cúspide del conocimiento y no desde los abismos de la
gestos y signos, en fin, que expresan lo contrario del verdadero
sultan's palace. They told the strange tidings to the grand vizier, who
But every morning when they left her, the kind little dwarfs warned
Aladdin, "build me a palace fit to receive the Princess Buddir al
"White as snow, red as blood, and black as ebony; this time the dwarfs
duración, pues es difícil mantener la vida en tan fulmínea tensión
sultan, on hearing these strange tidings, consulted with the grand
en que se fraguan todas las formas de nuestro sentir. El corazón es como
A sudden thought gave Grethel unusual strength; she started forward,
carpet which covered the platform of the throne, and remained in that
lleno del sentimiento del deber y de una rígida y caballeresca lealtad a
es nuestra hija».
long tract of country without delay, he arrived after incredible
do?"
collected, who hooted, and thought him, as did all who chanced to be
he used to sit."
He snatched it eagerly out of the slave's hand, and thrusting it as far
that the magician was her husband's brother. She thanked him for his
ignorancia. Las alas parten más raudas y seguras a hender los espacios
«gancho» diplomático. Los cancilleres de las cortes europeas hicieron,
to know, went up to him, and taking him aside from his comrades, said,
conducta, expuestas con delicado humorismo y singular gracejo narrativo.
que son también, como los artistas, un poco peligrosos, sino a los que
window, it tastes so nice." Hansel reached up on tiptoe, and breaking
debido a esa suave presión del medio, a la atmósfera favorable, al
But Two Eyes climbed up, and the golden apples did not fly back from her
beautiful, till she reached the age of seven years, and then people
shouts of the children, deriding the magician's folly.
window to be stopped. Aladdin met him at the gate, and without giving
dominados intelectualmente por la mujer. De manera que se puede
The next day the mother said to Three Eyes, "You must go to the field
frightened that he would have run away, but the magician caught hold of
clean and in order. And while they were gone to the mountains to find
Aladdin's palaces, made it as light as day. In this order the princess,
asking to change them for old ones? the children and mob crowding about
en la emoción que nos embarga; por muy quedo que se diga, lo expresa muy
dear fawn: he must go with me wherever I am."
balas rubies; the green, emeralds; the blue, turquoises; the purple,
honour of being the sultan's son-in-law, kept silence on his part, and
it was lifted up, the other when it was set down, and both in a very
the slave of the ring to the neighbourhood of his palace, that one of
propio--las aves noctívagas que vuelan por nuestros campos al morir el
while till the moon rises, and then we shall easily find our way home."
que toma por sentimiento real los fingimientos de que es víctima en
The next day the magician called for the twelve lamps, paid the man his
"Oh, I am so thirsty!" said the boy. "If we could only find a brook or a
lived at court.
father's brother. He cried and kissed me when I told him my father was
touch.
que puede ser luego (asunto de capitalísima trascendencia). El
magician wanted to know no more, He resolved at once on his plans. He
   So beautiful as thou."
  "Queen, thou art not the fairest now;
my commands punctually; now I would have thee make it like the rest."
espíritu y colme nuestras esperanzas. Lo razonable en amor es el ensueño
was disobedient to his father and mother, and would go out early in the
Early the next morning the magician called again for Aladdin, and said
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
murmuración a la «plancha».
examining the planetary crystal, he found that his brother was no longer
overjoyed to see them, for it grieved him to the heart to think that
la trasformación es tanta que todo lo de ayer ha adquirido carácter
Providencia la libra de este aflictivo conocimiento. Y así, cuando por
On looking more attentively, he was convinced beyond the power of doubt
brusco, pues nuestra negativa seca y rápida pudiera llevarlo a la
and make all the dispatch you can."
fijas es imposible, puesto que hay tanta variedad de caracteres y de
brother not having received as usual his annual communication, prepared
full as it could hold.
of this hall alone is sufficient to show I was deceived."
undo what they had begun, and to carry all their jewels back to the
la niñez a la pubertad, le ocurre a la mujer lo que a la mariposa al
Eyes, come here." Then came Two Eyes, quite comforted, from the empty
fulfillment of the promise you made to my son." The sultan little
About noon, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on the branch
restored to life. But when the dwarfs heard what had happened, they
which was lined with glittering silk.
the day before. He then ordered one of the horses to be got ready,
garden without stopping, took down the lamp from the niche, threw out
daughter. But as I cannot marry her without some further proof of your
and when she felt how thin it was, she wondered very much why he did not
dear mother knew! Come, let us go out into the wide world!"
siete sabios de Grecia (Solón, Bías, Tales, Anacarsis, Pitaco, Quilón,
magician, "those steps, and open that door. It will lead you into a
para editarlas.
maintain himself and his family, which consisted only of his wife and a
separation. After embracing and shedding tears of joy, they sat down,
witch, who had her house built of gingerbread on purpose to entrap
inmerecida de mi amiga.
must get food somewhere else."
     But at the palace, now,
más permanente. Lope de Vega, voto de calidad, pues fué un Don Juan
Aladdin's mother, on hearing these news, ran home very quickly. "Child,"
To her vexation the mirror replied:
motion, as if she were dead. They lifted her up, and saw in a moment
had said that the queen was too weak to see him, and never left her
experiencia. La entrada en un baile tiene singular influencia para el
own shop, and taught him how to use his needle; but all his father's
profunda aflicción. Acudieron a ella, vino la dueña de casa, la
hall, be sure to tuck up your robe, wrap it about you, and then pass
She opened the door, and said, "I will let you go this time; but pray do
nothing of her sisters, till one day two poor women came to the castle,
ceremonies, the princess took leave of the sultan her father. Bands of
to Aladdin's palace. As he approached, he began crying, "Who will
out from under the cask, and they rolled on till they reached the feet
the wick and the liquor, and, as the magician had desired, put it in his
attendants on foot, to inquire why he had ordered the completion of the
letters of gold her name on the lid, and that she was the daughter of a
should satisfy my impatience, and tell me exactly what passed between
little Grethel up to the oven door, under which the flames were burning
the inside of the goat; for it stood over where she had buried it in the
curar que las heridas de amor. El hombre que nos insinúa su afecto, que
dessert. After he had given what he brought into Aladdin's hands, he
Then he said, "Little Two Eyes, can you break off a branch of the tree
propósito. Este juego es peligroso y, desde luego, condenable. Cuando un
descubrimiento que merezca integrar las páginas de un texto de
Pedro L. Balza
When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, and shone brightly into
el novio de una vuelta de vals, sino de muchas vueltas del
the genie and you while I was in a swoon"; which he readily complied
day, the genie appeared at the appointed hour, bringing back the
That evening, when little Two Eyes again left the supper they placed
she found an earthenware dish with some scraps which her sisters had
le parece un objeto antediluviano, pues aunque el tiempo pasado es poco,
mundo, tienen la aptitud del fanatismo. Es un error creer que los años y
one night, excepting little Two Eyes. She supposed it had grown up from
dwarfs seated themselves round her, and wept and mourned for three days.
never beheld jewels so rich and beautiful before." The vizier was
asked:
reached the door, she knocked, and cried, "Beautiful goods to sell;
placed her women from the great hall to the foot of the staircase, that
  Pray deck out my table."
tedio. El cariño no tiene enemigo que le venza, porque está apoyado en
the ten purses Aladdin took four, which he gave to his mother, telling
impossible for him to overtake him.
of the apples, it escaped from her hand, and so it happened every time
looking out of his window, and mourning over the fate of his daughter,
dry, he stopped in the garden to observe the trees, which were loaded
knew that if no help came they must starve.
Aladdin could possibly fulfill. In accordance with this suggestion of
the lamp, and of the genie who had promised to obey him; and without
sultan, he dismissed the genie, and immediately mounting his charger,
It was a tiny little house, but everything in it was so clean and neat
resting on his soft pleasant bed!
rubbed it. At that summons the genie appeared, and said, "What wouldst
monarch." No sooner were the words out of his mouth than the genie
seguro de que nunca zozobrará...
as she liked in the little bed, while its owner slept with one of his
In the morning the wound was so much better that the fawn felt the foot
enter into discourse with Aladdin's mother. "My good sister," said he,
really tired her; and, as her sister continued her song, she was obliged
will not be able to awake thee."
the hand, and the white pebble stones, which glittered like newly-coined
a pleasant way to keep house," said little Two Eyes, and felt quite
intended to execute the design that had brought him from Africa to
misma palabra lo dice--es el sentimiento más terne, más perenne, de más
magician, "What have I done, uncle, to be treated in this severe
Now because little Two Eyes looked just like other people, her mother
city, to some magnificent palaces, to each of which belonged beautiful
aflicción: la primera es una herida de amor propio al verse relegada; la
sun shining on the chimney-top."
with our poverty, and had compassion on us?" "It is no matter, mother,"
sencillo. La casamentera se limita a decir: «todo está arreglado». Se le
sujeto, en el análisis de sus prendas morales, en la índole de su
y fulminante, cuando menos lo pensamos. En esta rapidez y en este fulgor
casamentera. Bien está ella cuando se pide, cuando, a fin de allanar
imagina, que es el amor perfecto. Y siendo como él quiere, soy como yo
Aladdin, on his being conveyed by the genie to his own home, requested
leaning on a stick.
last recovering himself, he said, "It is true, I do not see the palace.
of the divan shut. She went six times afterward on the days appointed,
Then the queen was terrified, and turned green and yellow with jealousy.
Having ascertained the place where the hermitage of this holy woman was,
in their hands. The old woman shook her head at them, and said, "Ah, you
had made my other two eyes close with her fine singing, but luckily the
los momentos precursores de la Revolución, cuando todas las pasiones
bridegroom, whom by breathing upon he had left motionless and entranced
delicado y comprensivo. Jamás la mujer--y esto es importantísimo--debe
could not forbear looking at and admiring the tray and dishes, though
The African magician, who was thus twice foiled in his endeavour to ruin
to this display. The princess, dazzled to see so much riches collected
and sat down by her son on the sofa, saying, "I expect now that you
rage and terror were so great that she stood still and could not move
Comencemos por desvanecer el error en que el título de esta croniquilla
Existe el hombre que presume de irresistible, el que tiene de sí mismo
adentro debe ser siempre solícito y obsequioso con las señoritas poco
golden collar, and then led him away into the depths of the forest.
educador. Se le hace con ello un servicio, induciéndole a moderar el
starved.
Again the brother denied himself and promised to wait; but he said, "At
and assume a most friendly manner toward him, and ask him to oblige you
mother: "Go and tell your son that I wait with open arms to embrace him;
out the limits without interrupting the communication; so great was the
indulging in idle words against the sultan, the vizier, or his son, he
town. I shall return by noon, and will then tell you what must be done
maiden more beautiful than he had ever seen in his life standing before
with the goat, leaving them behind where they had been placed for her.
him the dish, said, "Behold, admire, wonder! and confess that your eyes
enamorarse, lo que desea es enamorar. La mayor ambición de una señorita
nor a boat--will you let us sail across on your white back?"
trascendental de nuestra vida. Debe ser también, por lo tanto, el más
will take the children for a walk across the forest and leave them in
oil, and the lamp will be dry as soon as it is thrown out."
poor child in and baked her for dinner, instead of boiling Hansel.
Jew, whom I often see you visit; but perhaps you do not know that he is
own apartment, and sat up to await the return of the genie, according to
mismo sustantivo, cuando en los bailes, fiestas y saraos, se ven
(Editor)
dead, she felt quite satisfied there was no one in the world now likely
fin, se debe alentar una pasión que no se tiene el propósito de
At last his stepmother said, "Why do you keep staying behind and looking
Now it so happened that shortly after Aladdin had been transported by
half a dram of the powder; which the druggist weighed and gave him,
chest, which they opened, and found it full of pearls and precious
que debían ser lentas para salir de casa. No proclamo con esto el
head to be disposed of at your pleasure." "I give you the time you ask,
«¿cómo le pareceré yo al mundo?». Y a medida que se atavía y se adorna
Take the lamp down and put it out. When you have thrown away the wick
When Snow-white was a year old, the king took another wife. She was very
palace to the capital of China."
enough for me; just look, I could get in myself." As she spoke she
vista de los ojos. ¿No merece un poco de piedad un ciego tan sublime?
ligera, no convencerá a ninguna de mis lectoras. Podríamos devolverla al
But his sister wept, and begged him not to go: "If they kill you, dear
that they shall exceed everything of the kind ever seen in the world.
glory of finishing this hall." "I take your intention kindly," said the
Aladdin returned home in the order he had come, amidst the acclamations
answer when any one presented itself, crying out, "Here is a finer
   Fairer a thousand times than thee."
her slaves, and that the dresses they had brought were for her use. Of
to wear, and gave her only the pieces that were left to eat, and did
every house, and the children heard their stepmother talking after they
Eyes, why do you weep?"
for him and for his court by Aladdin, he was informed that the jewellers
haber conversado mucho y haber «flirteado» algo--no mucho,--haciendo
At these words the African magician threw his arms about Aladdin's neck,
which the man agreed to. When they had made the exchange, the countryman
slaughtered goat, and then go and bury it in the ground in front of the
woman, go home, and tell your son that I agree to the proposal you have
you know how powerful their aid is. And I have another secret to tell
dicha duradera. El cariño surge de convivir. El amor nace de no haber
Aladdin, agreeably surprised at an offer of help so little expected,
struck with its beauty; but when he entered it, came into the hall, and
and I will sing to you."
and having prostrated herself, said to the sultan, "Sire, my son knows
sólo desconoce la casamentera. Todo lo demás es circunstancial y
Watching an opportunity, she left the castle, and took her way to the
pronuncia en forma de dejarnos «planchando». Todos nuestros optimismos
They persisted, however, in declaring that the tree was their own
the mother to be burnt alive.
alive. "I must think of something else," she said to herself, "to get
had been sitting there a long time, the children's eyes became heavy
short a time, he embraced Aladdin and kissed him between his eyes. "My
unkind and cruel to them. One day the boy took his sister's hand, and
responsable del desaire a la dama que ofrecía la fiesta, la cual, a
into a wolf, and devour me."
and thought they were in heaven.
night, when it was ready, said to her son, "Perhaps the stranger knows
One evening, after the children were gone to bed, the parents sat
as many young and handsome white slaves, all dressed magnificently. On
waistband. But as he came down from the terrace, seeing it was perfectly
  Remove my nice table,'
desavenencias que ocurran, los disgustillos transitorios, las pequeñas
"Ah!" she answered, "I suffer from hunger and thirst, and sorrow, and
Entre los poetas y este modesto filósofo, la elección no es dudosa para
The first and second times that she did so, the sisters did not notice
went about his business, and Aladdin entered the neighbouring city.
behind him, as they walked through the wood. This time they went on till
neighbours. She spent the whole day in preparing the supper; and at
Pero, como va insinuado, no nos referimos a estas planchadoras, sino a
answered the boy, "but he has been dead a long time."
to eat, and wished she would give him his breakfast. "Alas! child," said
head, had begun to march from Aladdin's house, the whole city was filled
implica la intención de hacer sufrir, empeño que delata poca reflexión y
concentración de todo el universo en un solo ser y la dilatación de este
I may command, for it is a matter of great consequence both to you and
take care of us." Then he laid himself down again in bed, and slept till
Aladdin rose that morning by daybreak, put on one of the most
which held quite as much as Hansel's pockets.
speedily as you were brought from thence."
living, but had been poisoned; and by another observation, that he was
Hansel, "let us stop here and have a splendid feast. I will have a piece
out before her, they did her no harm. She ran on as long as she could
en amor. Pero antes de decir «sí» bailamos mucho, conversamos mucho, y
de la feliz armonía existente en la unión fraguada, acaba por ejercer
stood; look, mind, and tell me what has become of it." Aladdin did so,
the dish untouched, and One Eye could not tell her mother whether little
herself, "I was asleep."
before them. The children followed him, till at last they saw at a
was quite dark, and poor little Grethel was afraid; but Hansel comforted
window, and said, "I dare not let you in; the seven dwarfs have
dimana de la simpatía, ese aire o nimbo de las figuras que es como el
principio de compromiso. La «planchadora», por el contrario, prefiere la
   The bride will prove a thousand times
acertada, no ligera ni superficial; pues sobre pobres, falsos o frágiles
servir de norma en una presentación en sociedad: «La tontería se coloca
hombres nos enteramos de los defectos de una dama por otra dama; pero
China, and its removal was only felt by two little shocks, the one when
had it not been for a few berries which they picked they must have
este beso de mi marido vale más, mucho más que toda la fauna, incluso la
multitude by asking everybody he met if they had seen his palace, or
took it in his hands, looked for the part where his mother had rubbed it
     Who is most beautiful of all?"
difícil trance de tener que decir «no» por culpa de ella misma. Porque
from the roof first, Grethel; and you can eat some of the barley-sugar
and say her prayers, and then lay her delicate head on the fawn's back,
tree belong? If a man possessed only one branch he might obtain all he
de recibirlo. La casamentera nunca se percata de esta condición
inglesa en el bloqueo. Nos asimos un poco más, porque el baile lo
one of its windows incomplete and unfinished." "Sire," answered Aladdin,
recursos nos iremos librando de la «plancha» en las noches de mala
corresponder. De todas las coqueterías ésta es la más condenable, porque
present? Is it not worthy of the princess my daughter? And ought I not
abashed when his mother answered "Aladdin is an idle fellow. His father,
nuestros sentidos. No quiere esto decir que el amor ha de estar exento
their conversation; "for," said he, "you will soon be at man's estate,
this they found they should have enough left for supper, and two meals
divan, a spacious hall, the entrance into which was very magnificent.
sino un lento y contínuo desenmascaramiento que sólo se hace total con
The king placed the maiden before him on his horse and rode away to his
circunstancias, la tolerancia, la encantadora docilidad.
Y aunque, en realidad, nada haya arreglado, acaba todo por arreglarse,
cifra la razón de su vida en la correspondencia de nuestro corazón al
explicado, un tomo de psicología femenina.
side, which, together with the illuminations of the sultan's and
At last they arrived between two mountains of moderate height and equal
frightened to see dear little Snow-white lying on the ground without
the young knight loved her so dearly that they were married with great
Y así el esquife de nuestro amor marcha por el piélago de la vida,
locked her up, but she did not go far, as she wanted to watch over her
el cariño vale más que el amor, porque es más sostenible, más durable,
window, perceived him and instantly told her mistress. The princess, who
de ese sentimiento de exaltada firmeza, de perennidad indestructible,
The nearer the sultan approached Aladdin's palace, the more he was
que el amor. El amor es la llama; quizá no pase de una fogata fugaz; el
large stag, a numerous hunting party came to the forest, and amongst
soon as their parents slept, Hansel got up, intending to go out and
"Dry up your tears, little Two Eyes," said the wise woman; "I will tell
endeavours to keep him to his work were vain, for no sooner was his back
   A thousand times fairer is than thou."
As the sultan, who had been informed of their approach, had given orders
In the morning, when Snow-white awoke, and saw all the dwarfs, she was
requisito indispensable cierto grado de robustez en las alas.
mine. Lay one down immediately." The genie disappeared, and Aladdin saw
huir de los «gatos» a toda hora, de noche, de día y entre dos luces.
viziers, and most distinguished lords of the court were just gone in;
without that you had never seen me again; and though I am alive now,
he that I first saw called himself the slave of the ring on my finger;
So the hunter enticed the child into the wood; but when he took out his
of bed, and, when they were dressed, gave them each a piece of bread for
supper every day, and all that has been put for her has been wasted; she
Not long after, the seven dwarfs came home, and they were terribly
Pero la especie masculina es muy variada. Hay hombres un poco cegatos en
The jewellers and goldsmiths examined the three-and-twenty windows with
When they awoke it was the third morning since they had left their
form a nice shelter for them both. So she led the fawn in, and then went
and required him to prepare and present the gift immediately, before the
advierte que cierta pareja abrazada y danzante da a su abrazo, en un
espíritu. Porque el amor, como el rayo, surge de una manera instantánea
not permitted to take it himself, but must receive it as a voluntary
cups. All these he placed upon a carpet and disappeared; this was done
condición de «planchadora» la de pelma. Le ocurre lo contrario que a la
of her husband, changed the conversation, and turning toward her son,
you are safe; you are with me."
much haste, that the Jew, not content with the exorbitancy of his
propio y no las lógicas combinaciones de una casamentera.
Son los poetas los que han dicho que el órgano del amor es el corazón.
manner?" "I am your uncle," answered the magician; "I supply the place
acabó con el rencor de dos monarquías y de sus leales súbditos. Estos
cutting wood in the forest; when you feel tired, you can lie down and
«gancho» recurren a mil arbitrios delicados, procurando que la pareja se
scimitar between them, to show that he was determined to secure her
hacer nuestra aparición en la tertulia o sarao, conduciéndonos desde el
el sujeto ya bien conocido; no con una máscara. Asimismo, nunca es
bread, and said, "You must keep that to eat for your dinner, and don't
signs of breath from her mouth, and they found she was really dead. Yet
secure this wonderful lamp if he had not known its value to exceed that
will prepare at once to satisfy his request."
of gold; but he ran so fast, and had got so far, that it would have been
pale red, and others deeper; some green, blue, and purple, and others
instante de nuestra llegada. Con este y otros pequeños y discretos
melancholy. She only cast at him a sorrowful look, expressive of great
to give you one last embrace." Aladdin's mother desired him to sit down
world besides shall we find walls built of massy gold and silver, and
in sorrow about his children.
bounded away joyfully into the forest.
de una dama antes que al apoyo de otro hombre.
Aladdin, who knew that all the sultan's endeavours to make this window
mujer: la bondad, la resignación, el avenimiento a todas las
la fe jurada, el que forma los sólidos vínculos de la vida matrimonial.
we shall be able to do nothing. Take hold of the ring, and lift it up;
him, and gave him such a box on the ear that he knocked him down.
pot with water, and hang it over the fire to boil. As soon as this was
her, the spell was broken. The queen told the king how cruelly she had
presentimiento de que será aceptado, presentimiento fundado en ciertos
take it out of my sight, and put it where you please. I had rather you
«no» desde el primer instante, pues al que no entiende de razones con
having passed the night in the same unpleasant way, they were in the
lords of his court, accompanied Aladdin.
when he had overtaken him, made a proposal to him to change clothes,
Una herida de amor propio tarda mucho en curarse; quizá no cicatriza
exchange."
   Over the mountains still is she,
the palace, where the ceremony is to be solemnised."
The third cried, "Some one has taken part of my bread."
she wore were to her as iron bands full of coals of fire, in which she
Su presentación en sociedad es el primer episodio interesante en la vida
each a purse containing ten thousand pieces of gold, and six women
clothes; for if you do, you will die instantly. At the end of the third
When the sultan's porters came to open the gates, they were amazed to
sentimental. Si no nos gusta o no nos conviene--desde luego no nos
stream." So he took his sister by the hand, and they ran together to
great attention, and after they had consulted together, to know what
la experiencia evitan que nos fanaticemos. Ocurre, precisamente todo lo
Snow-white had no suspicion, so she placed herself before the old woman
came by chance upon the dwarfs' house and asked for a night's lodging.
y se embellece con los mil recursos que la moda inventa, piensa la
But Two Eyes knew what she had in her mind. So she drove the goat into
behaviour and liberality the affections of the people.
turned, than he was gone for that day, Mustapha chastised him, but
his apartment, attended by the grand vizier; the other viziers and
told is Africa."
least-frequented streets; and having no more occasion for his lamps or
sultan and the divan rise, I would have you return to the palace with
complejidades sentimentales. Hay el hombre que cifra todo su éxito en el
quarrel over it, for you will get nothing more."
ángeles y los serafines, todo, absolutamente todo eso, es mentira,
señora confía en que la niña será siempre muy buena. «Es nuestra hija»,
and women, to form a retinue for the princess and myself. Go and execute
rescoldo sobre la llama, o sea del cariño sobre el amor.
buscado por nosotras mismas. En realidad es una conducta que tiene algo
will go and sell it, and the money I shall get for it will serve both
good, broke off another large piece, and Grethel had just taken out a
Una ligera inquietud invade el espíritu de mamá. Es necesario que la
dared not let him see her, for she had only two eyes, like common
sabéis, a la historia natural y, particularmente, a la especialidad de
miraba atónito a su querido maestro. Por último le dijo: «tiene un
dentro: que a la figura elegante no corresponda un espíritu deforme». La
concertar bodas y a tramar enlaces, usurpando su papel al azar o a los
to think she was dead.
that he would hear any more of the matter. He therefore took counsel
placed herself in front of the sultan as usual, the grand vizier
assured him that he was a fit boy for his purpose, inquired his name and
without considering he is no longer a child; and if you do not make him
importancia. (Y no quiere esto decir que las aves noctívagas carezcan de
mezclando así la desesperanza o desengaño con el consuelo. Probablemente
este punto y no nos queda ya espacio para su desarrollo. Agregaremos,
¿Salen bien los matrimonios formados así? Habría mucho que hablar sobre
circulación danzante a las «planchadoras», procurando aliviar la
conoce, yo lo afirmo, porque le quiero mucho, y esta es una razón
Buddoor. Let its materials be made of nothing less than porphyry,
¿Cuál es en la mujer la verdadera edad del amor? Puntualicemos con más
defiende de la «plancha» con dos recursos: bailando bien y teniendo
primor sobre primor. «Está elegantísima», observa la señora al esposo.
Aladdin went out of the sultan's palace in a condition of exceeding
value. Furnish also twenty slaves, as richly clothed as those who
This plan just suited Aladdin, who hated work. He told the magician he
said, "Be comforted, dear little sister, and sleep in peace; heaven will
was soon fast asleep.
appearance; her face was as fresh, and her cheeks and lips had their
shining on the chimney-pot."
help you. If you have no mind to learn any handicraft, I will take a
da de zahorí, de sagaz y penetrante para descubrir los sentimientos de
advice. Go home, and ask your sister to give you the inside of the
first, and then came back for Hansel. And then how happy the children
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
him. But how frightened she felt to see instead of her dear little fawn
of pebbles. Then the stepmother led them a long way into the forest.
had been prescribed. The genie professed his obedience to the owner of
had a lattice-door, and shut him in; he might scream as much as he
necklace she wore round her waist, and her stick, went straight to the
novelas modernas, probablemente de Bourget, que se ha ocupado mucho de
this wedding at all, but she felt it impossible to rest until she had
solamente el usufructo. ¿Y adónde va una sin capital? No hay que perder
maintain them some time.
forks, and silver spoons, and such a delicious dinner, smoking hot as if
When the supper was ended, there entered a company of female dancers,
learnt from his magic books the secret and the value of this wonderful
and feel sorry for having treated her so badly in their youthful days.
gold, full of the same sort of jewels you have already made me a present
ha de demostrar su habilidad, su fino tacto, sus recursos de dama de
brought out, and the jewellers took a great quantity, particularly those
"I can let in this respectable old woman," thought Snow-white; "she will
presently returned with the horse, the forty slaves, ten of whom carried
and tarts, while the window was formed of barley-sugar. "Oh!" exclaimed
insustanciales. Una mujer díscola es inaguantable. Hay que ser como la
When Aladdin had got into his chamber, he took the lamp, rubbed it in
mal agüero. Conviene tener un amigo de confianza que nos acompañe al
he asked Aladdin if he did not think it fine; and the youth was ready to
His wife would listen to nothing he said, but continued to reproach him,
receive me in the same manner."
amorosa ni la consistencia de su sentimiento.
gracioso lunar, el rizo juguetón, todo aquello que constituye su
Persia, Arabia, Syria, and Egypt, and afterward crossed over into
many large, beautiful and valuable jewels collected in the dish. He
It vanished in the twinkling of an eye; and then Two Eyes woke up One
Poor Snow-white, who was hungry and thirsty, ate a few vegetables and a
Talleyrand, por ejemplo, debieron sus mejores éxitos políticos a este
por ello la cúspide de la gloria y de la proceridad. Hay «ganchos» que
Then she cried quickly, "Stay, brother, stay! do not drink, or you will
felicidad. ¡ Ay, Dios mío, qué recuerdos!...
After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on
black slaves, led by the same number of white slaves, appeared opposite
mudo. Mi respuesta fué oprimirle el brazo, latir como nunca he latido y
African magician drew Aladdin insensibly beyond the gardens, and crossed
proponente nos agrada, brota espontáneo, casi sin palabras; lo damos con
más esencial aun, consistente en su sana orientación ética, en una
answering that he had given them none, he ordered a horse to be brought,
him, so that he can hardly stir, make all the noise they can in derision
offered to pay down immediately.
branches and the fruit evaded their efforts, and sprung back at every
seen the bride, so she determined to go. But what was her astonishment
en realidad, no se pregunta: «¿cómo será el mundo?», interrogación harto
cuenta que el amor propio es más fuerte que el amor; como que muchas
If she had caught sight of Snow-white at that moment, she would have
which he mounted, and rode to his son-in-law's palace, with some few
casamenteras, en fin, sólo pueden lograr su objeto con personas de
her. Whether that or the smell of the meat effected her cure, it was not
heart, for she knew that after all she had done Snow-white was still
The good-natured duck came near the bank as Grethel spoke, so close
wonderful tree belongs to us now," they said; "even if we cannot break
la mujer. Suele, en su presunción de psicólogo, hacer análisis que no
ido poniendo, para demostrar que sólo así adquirían valor las demás
house, went out to buy some, and found a general rejoicing--the houses
brought; and the next day Aladdin, who could not bear the thoughts of
presented the precious stones which he had brought back. The sultan
Cuidado, pues, mucho cuidado con herir el amor propio del marido. Yo (y
gardens separated from one another only by small ditches, which marked
sooner had they entered it, and dismissed their attendants, than the
evitar que en su casa se vean en tan triste soledad. Al efecto, la dueña
las resistencias que se oponen al anhelo del pretendiente. El aunar las
intimated his suspicion that the palace was built by magic, and that
to wear, and as much to eat and drink as she wished, and as she grew up
diplomáticos.
conveyed in her litter, and accompanied also by Aladdin's mother,
right senses. I foresaw that you would reproach me with folly and
Providencia pone en nuestro camino para que encienda en amor nuestro
aficionado a la historia natural y presume de conocer como nadie (y
original mean condition."
came in loaded with wine and all sorts of fruits, which he brought for a
looked out of her chamber window of the castle, she saw, to her great
Hansel and Grethel were so frightened that they let fall what they held
porque, además de herir su amor propio de entendido en aves noctívagas,
When Aladdin had examined every portion of the palace, and particularly
on the carpet which was spread from the sultan's palace to that of
house, and while looking round the old witch's room, they saw an old oak
cave, had made his escape, and was living in royal splendour, by the aid
this time, and find out whether there is anyone who brings food to
tropiezos. Allanémoslos, en vez de aumentarlos; que al quitar los
una posibilidad de aceptación, con la reserva mental de una negativa al
stood a most wonderful tree, with leaves of silver and apples of gold
eaten as much as they liked, they got up, and pursued their walk through
Not long after this there came another time of scarcity and want in
with its silver leaves and golden fruit.
back so?"
of ever seeing light again, and in an expectation of passing from the
producirá con el trato y el trabajo continuo y vigilante del «gancho».
At the instant that the genie had set down the couch with the bride and
After this she went back to Grethel, and, shaking her roughly till she
endeavoured to conform to the conditions you were pleased to impose."
    "Who dares to drink of me,
to do that."
Then the mirror would reply:
Aladdin's mother prostrated herself a second time before the sultan's
fin de descubrir en los sujetos aquellas cualidades, dones y tendencias
se verá solicitada. Pero es necesario tener sentido de la medida, no
Madame Neker, cuyo ingenio lució tanto en los salones de Versalles, en
otorgarnos.
The queen escaped from the bath-room, where the wicked old woman had
of your father, and you ought to make no reply. But child," added he,
a noble gentleman walk in with a gold crown on his head.
"Oh, you fool," replied the stepmother, "if you refuse to do this, you
damas. Al hombre le parecen, en fin, afeminadas estas gestiones, y aún
to whom he had appeared before in the cave?" "Mother," answered Aladdin,
in the same place, but he declined. "No," said he, "I shall not do that;
Se parecen en esto al diplomático que realiza un concierto
other slaves of the lamp."
Aladdin's mother, terrified at the sight of the genie, fainted; when
encauzándolos en una tibia atracción, cuya mayor temperatura sucesiva se
procure myself the honour of this alliance."
Aladdin supped with his mother as was their wont, and then went to his
all the circumstances of her interview with the sultan, and the
possesses the ring on thy finger; I, and the other slaves of that ring."
They had been walking for nearly two hours when they came to a large
   With seven little dwarfs, who are strange to see;
and sisters could not endure her. They said to her, "You are not better
will not cheat you."
thank me for: but while I strike a light, gather up all the loose dry
of the emirs of his court were not to be compared to the costly dresses
Aladdin, while he paid all respect to the sultan, won by his affable
were to find themselves in a part of the wood which they remembered
window to contemplate and admire the wonderful palace of his son-in-law.
telling me we are in Africa I desire you only to tell me if you know
he halted, and looked with wonder and pleasure at the beautiful tree
embraced her with tears of joy; and the princess, on her side, afforded
combinación de las bodas. En lenguaje clásico se les llama casamenteras
little beds, near each other, covered with white quilts.
number of wax candles, where a noble feast was served up. The dishes
Eyes did; for poor little Two Eyes, thinking she was asleep, said her
never say anything more about them.
of the people, and it was common for them to swear by his head. Thus
desdeñarse mi entrometimiento que ocupa tantas y tan sublimes páginas en
en el transcurso de los siglos, «ganchos» memorables. Metternich y
the roof of the house, and I am sure she is crying for me."
espíritu apagado y su inteligencia opaca hacen que su compañía sea
gold each. "What a villain!" cried the goldsmith. "But," added he, "my
thought the request of Aladdin's mother was made to him in earnest, or
The wicked queen when she returned home, after, as she thought, killing
despejando así el camino de la dicha. Vivir es ya un milagro; no depende
the word was no sooner given that the African magician was fallen
find it.
his commands.
so much violence that he rubbed the ring which the magician had given
Grethel had nothing for herself but a crab's claw. Every morning the old
khan. His end was answered, and by his silence he got rid of the
Buddir al Buddoor."
pointed out the way. They walked all the night through, and did not
required. This infamous magician, the basest of men, was the sole cause
after bathing the wound, placed healing herbs on it, and said, "Lie down
mucho a sus maridos, que se casaron por conveniencia, suelen ser las más
disfraz del amor por pura satisfacción de orgullo. Y esto lleva a muchas
see how much the Jew has cheated you."
agradable que los salones y las tertulias. Fidias, que además de un
persona que realmente lo merezca. Y la elección de marido, como la
palace, divided into three great halls. In each of these you will see
By the next night they had eaten all the provisions the genie had
EL MATRIMONIO
Amen"--before she allowed herself to taste anything. But oh, how she did
For two nights the baby's nurse saw a figure of the queen come into the
me to gather wood for the fire." Then she gave each of them a piece of
Pero la verdadera casamentera no es la que ejerce este género de
obedience, and disappeared. Immediately the palace was transported into
in all her rich dress before the magic mirror to admire her own
hermosura sin gracia, decía Ninón, es como un anzuelo sin cebo. Su
comes to our next audience, do not fail to call her, that I may hear
that her stays had been laced too tight Quickly they cut the stay-lace
her, those were to supply her with necessaries; the other six he left in
Princess Buddir al Buddoor's, each carrying a complete dress fit for any
have regarded with your favour, will be able to make a nobler present
to bestow her on one who values her at so great a price?" "I cannot but
two beautiful little beds with white curtains, and they lay down in them
desventura. Por regla general, se debe a que la «planchadora» no ha sido
Una vez casada la pareja, la casamentera tiene en el hogar la autoridad
be fat or lean, I don't care, to-morrow morning I mean to kill him, and
apartment, left him.
The widow, after his promises of kindness to her son, no longer doubted
foreheads, and at the same time the white slaves did the same. When they
her son should be guilty of greater extravagance, complied with his
¿Para qué seguir presentando más casos? La variedad es tan grande que no
solicitar del Director del gran diario, Don Ezequiel P. Paz, el permiso
liked to eat. So one day she seated herself on a mound in the field, and
When the magician had made choice of a place, and sat down, he began to
you: those pieces of glass, which I got from the trees in the garden of
thing gets her good eating and drinking;" and then she described all she
each attended by a great many footmen. Aladdin's mother asked the oil
"Oh! where am I?" she cried.
said, "This is not well, nephew; you must think of helping yourself, and
that she knew not what to do. At first she declared she would not go to
is very dirty; if it were a little cleaner I believe it would bring
The princess was a noted beauty: her eyes were large, lively, and
absence, and on no account to open the door; but Snow-white was not
When the stone was pulled up, there appeared a staircase about three or
of these slaves, whom they supposed to be kings.
Quedarse «planchando»... Nada aflige tanto a una muchacha, ni le da una
where the old lamp now is." "The African magician carries it carefully
   A thousand times fairer than thou is she."
gave the old woman a push which sent her right into the oven, then she
felicidad está en la libre elección, en unirnos al ser que la
  "Fair queen, at home there is none like thee,
done, the old woman said, "We will bake some bread first; I have made
will help us across if we ask her," said the child; and she sung,
mujeres, igual que los niños, se corrigen con leves sentencias. Y apunta
The wicked witch had thrown her into a trance, hoping she would die, and
altas, las planchadoras elevan a las bajas por medio del almidonado.
It is vanished; but I had no concern in its removal. I beg you to give
know we must all four perish with hunger; you may as well go and cut the
definitiva) la fauna argentina y muy especialmente--aquí está su amor
emplear un «no» oscuro, nebuloso, para aumentar el mar de sus propias
He presented the six women slaves to his mother, telling her they were
delightful for him to breathe the fresh air and be free again.
China. "We will go no farther now," said he to Aladdin; "I will show you
Grethel ran away, and therefore she was left to burn, just as she had
be out in the heat of the sun, she began to feel tired, and as little
palabras cordiales y cariñosas con cultura exquisita, sin deprimirle en
belleza.
Then had her envious heart rest, at least such rest as a heart full of
"Princess," said Aladdin, "I think I have found the means to deliver you
"Oh yes, I will try," said Snow-white. So they let her stay, and she was
rescoldo que el de la fogata. Cuando la fogata no se convierte en
acabaríamos nunca. Baste decir que cada uno de ellos requiere una
acquaintance with us, and, who knows? we may get husbands after all."
suave quebranta la ira. Una mujer colérica es el mayor tormento de un
trouble, from early morning till late at night; if you would only take
As soon as this magnificent procession, with Aladdin's mother at its
journey, I made the necessary preparations, and set out. Nothing ever
es un acto criminal dejar «planchar» a una señorita. Así, pues, un
should surpass her in beauty. She possessed a wonderful mirror, and when
obey." "I am overjoyed, child," said the African magician, embracing
greatest monarch in the world. No person but yourself is permitted to
gusto, pues no se debe jugar con el corazón ni con las ilusiones de
cera, dócil al moldeo, que al fin el moldeador suele adquirir el
old woman put her own ugly daughter in the queen's bed that the king
Siento invencible timidez para tocar este punto, asaz complejo y
fawn; and, going up to the little door, knocked and said softly, "Dear
Comprometido su amor propio, la casamentera incurre en exageraciones
una forma de belleza física. Un cuerpo flexible, ágil, con movimientos
es porque el amor, en su forma exaltada, sólo es, como dice Voltaire, un
del amor. No en balde la frase goza de tanta difusión en el mundo. Pero
forgiveness." "Well," replied the sultan, "I will forgive you, be it
praised for all things! It is a comfort for me to find, as it were, my
officers in habits of ceremony, mounted on horses richly caparisoned,
of what you have to sell, or I will direct you to other merchants who
like number of black mutes, in two files, with their officers at their
menudas pasiones que en ella bullen y se agitan.
they must not starve?"
para hacerlas subir. Papá agrega otros razonamientos graves, discretos,
not breathe, and presently fell down at her feet as if dead.
But when they went out of the thicket into the moonlight they found no
they each ate the piece of bread which their stepmother had given them
different from what he expected in the son of one so humble as Aladdin's
he should be much obliged to him for his kindness. "Well then," said the
always on my finger." Aladdin's mother replied that he might do what he
alto el estado de nuestro ánimo. Lo difícil, lo árduo, es decir «no»,
the mountains to the dwarfs' cottage.
him safe, the fawn sprang over the bushes and disappeared.
One Eye seated herself, and, not being accustomed to walk so far, or to
up in the napkin. She took the china dish which she had set down at the
«planchar» tanto por sobra como por ausencia de despejo.
están en la persona analizada, sino en él mismo. Ha leído algunas
She and her ugly daughter came to the castle when the queen had a little
they gave me so little that I am nearly starved."
remained for some time lost in admiration. At last, when he had
off some of the fruit from the tree."
where the lamp was--whether Aladdin carried it about with him, or where
was retired from the world, and of the miracles she wrought. As he
on your bed, dear fawn, and the wound will soon heal, if you rest your
when she touched them, but almost laid themselves on her hand, and she
llorosos, a la muñeca que alborozó sus horas infantiles. Pero ahora, no;
Aladdin had made him a present of, which they soon used, without making
confusiones. Detesto los noveleros, los hombres que carecen de
behind the door of the bath, so that he could not fail to see her face.
exclaimed: "You naughty children, why have you been staying so long in
Then to her surprise the mirror replied:
nuestra capacidad analítica. ¿Por qué en unos bailes tenemos éxito y en
were conducted in the sultan's palace with great magnificence. The
has told us, are only devils."
princess; but I beg of your majesty to grant me three months before you
the hollow tree, so they left their place of shelter and wandered away
other person.
hanging between them. Nothing in the wide world could be more beautiful
a ellas se produce en la vida cierta nivelación. Al contrario de los
  "Fair queen, thou art the fairest here,
took it in her hand, and led him away from the cottage in the wood to
along directly."
One day as Aladdin was walking about the town, he heard an order
los ojos, necesario es hacer que las entienda por medio de los oídos.
When Snow-white heard the old cry, "Goods to sell, fine goods to sell,"
He contado esta nimiedad tan íntima, tan personal, a guisa de ejemplo,
her hand, and the poor little animal went out with her, and played about
the left. After they were all entered, and had formed a semicircle
disguised that no one could have recognised her.
one. How came that vile genie to address himself to me, and not to you,
of his incense into the fire, and pronounced two magical words, when the
A la edad de diez y ocho o veinte años la mujer carece de aptitudes
have better food than we, do you? You shall lose your wish!" She took up
Then the envious mother cried out to poor little Two Eyes, "You wish to
through the second into the third without stopping. Above all things,
as the table was so well furnished. But all the time Aladdin's mother
several indifferent matters; and then the magician took his leave and
their faces, she recognised her two sisters, who had become so poor that
looked so beautiful in the white snow that the queen thought to herself:
thought that he had any hand in the strange adventures that befell the
to abandon him to his idleness; and was so much troubled about him, that
sino todo un tratado de psicología femenina. Pero hemos de contraernos a
guarda en un mueble tradicional. La señorita no hace caso de su muñeca:
The African magician perceiving that the widow wept at the remembrance
sin duda los diversos poetas que han cantado la vida de Don Juan no
only say:
coyundar. A la muchacha le comunica todo lo bueno que el mozo diga de
not like your father's, and would prefer another; I will endeavour to
agradable la atadura si ella está formada por tenues hilos de seda. Sean
everything that they could to make her miserable. It so happened that
lives."
tienen aptitudes gobernantes. La razón estriba en que, siendo el
where you will see a niche before you, and in that niche a lighted lamp.
resolved immediately to revenge his death, and at once departed for
When Aladdin found himself so handsomely equipped, he returned his uncle
atajar discretamente desde el comienzo las insinuaciones, a fin de que
African magician, who had for some years dismissed him from his
her ugly daughter, whom she tried to make the king believe was his wife,
Aladdin being suddenly enveloped in darkness, cried, and called out to
señoritas que asisten a la fiesta sean atendidas y obsequiadas. En esto
al maestro las cualidades de su futura. «Es hermosa como el lucero de la
that the grand vizier's son is to marry the Princess Buddir al Buddoor,
But the poor little motherless child, when she found herself alone in
La niña se ha convertido en señorita. Ya la muñeca ha quedado
So they determined to find out the truth, and they arranged that when
would come quickly and devour them?"
He led the sultan into the princess's apartment. The happy father
to draw up a contract of marriage between the Princess Buddir al Buddoor
the day broke.
rose, the black slaves uncovered the trays, and then all stood with
On the very day that the three months contained in the sultan's promise
his acquaintance among the jewellers, he came to know that the fruits
dispuestos para el matrimonio son los políticos. El literato, el mismo
Then the wicked queen glanced in at the window with a horrible look in
sencillez. Con este pretendiente, que es un vanidoso cerebral, se debe
with the crowds of people desirous to see so grand a sight. The graceful
owing to that lamp; and what grieves me most is, that I have been the
Aladdin seized as a prisoner of state. On his son-in-law being brought
   A thousand times more beautiful than thee."
  "'Little goat, when you're able,
The princess, in anticipation of the success of her scheme, had so
in front of the palace, that the princess, who was then in the hall with
Aladdin thought himself the most happy of all men at hearing this news,
de la ilusión. Acriollando el adagio, bueno será añadir que conviene
soon find out where she was, and said, "Whatever you do, let nobody into
ella, y aún aumenta algo de su propia cosecha; y al mozo todo lo mejor
Two Eyes took her goat to the field, One Eye should go with her to take
what a beautiful little child!" they said to each other, and were so
  Come and deck my pretty table."
entre sus almas, si existe o no existe afinidad, si los corazones laten
the ring, and not have anything to do with genies, who, as our prophet
upon a shelf of the Prince Aladdin's robing room, and whoever owns it
circunstancias, es difícil el acierto, pues como dice Byron «rara vez
give me some part of my poor goat. I don't want anything valuable; only
farmer's wife eat one half that she could not any longer resist, but
poco tarde: «no se es amorosa ni devota a los 20 años».
When the sultan returned to his palace, he ordered his jewels to be
mucho más difícil que el «sí» de las niñas...
house, and this he did again and again.
ingenio y espiritualidad. El bailar bien, con gracia y soltura, es ya
truthful, and that the hunter must have deceived her, and that
Defecto grave en la mujer es tener un espíritu contradictor, una
procedimientos, que quieren llevar las cosas a paso de carga, hombres
white bread cakes on two plates, two flagons of wine, and two silver
poisoned him was of mean birth, though married to a princess, a sultan's
tiene pretendiente; otras veces por dar celos con el incauto al que
CHAPTER V
had it, but that it was very dear; upon which Aladdin, penetrating his
and you cannot too early begin to imitate their example." When they had
Para la mujer, ceder es conseguir--siempre que el marido sea tierno,
pleased; for her part, she would have nothing to do with genies, and
tampoco «planchará». Una conversación amena, dotada de espíritu de
by my diligence and exactness of the ardent and sincere desire I have to
collar, pointed it out to the king, and they determined to hunt it.
restored Aladdin to his favour, and expressed his regret for the
One day in the middle of winter, when the snowflakes fell from the sky
"I am called Snow-white," she replied.
gran virtud de los padres). El enamorado agregó: «Es inteligente». Y el
In the mean time, Aladdin's mother advanced to the foot of the throne,
deserted hut, and the sister was overjoyed, for she thought it would
to come, and poisoned a beautiful apple. Outwardly it looked ripe and
y han servido muchas veces de tópico a la musa irónica de los escritores
No creo haber agotado este tema trascendental de las «planchadoras»,
a despecho de las acusaciones matemáticas del espejo, nos vemos de otra
their dinners, smaller than they had had before, and then they started
And now that there was nothing to be afraid of, they went back into the
girdles, and the brilliancy of the aigrettes of precious stones in their
not displeased at my proceedings against you; they arose from my
what it may, and no hurt shall come to you; speak boldly."
and pay you a visit, that he may see the house my father lived and died
The magician next pulled from his girdle a handkerchief with cakes and
variadísimos, según las personas que se trate de unir, el medio social y
boda. La casamentera ha sabido convertir a todo el círculo en
forbidden me."
When Aladdin's mother had taken away and set by what was left, she went
travel with the prince, and the king was so pleased with his son's
starved to death in the woods; then we should have died together!"
When he had finished his song, he spread out his wings and flew on
solo ser hasta Dios»?
mother had retired, the sultan put an end to the audience; and rising
es más precoz que el entendimiento. Lo que más falta nos hace es
informed the sultan, who exclaimed, "It must be Aladdin's palace, which
hast hitherto obeyed me, but now I am about to impose on thee a harder
earth.
uncle of his, but one who designed him evil. The truth was that he had
"What!" said the person whom he addressed, "have you never seen or heard
undressed, without seeing by whom, in a magnificent and spacious hall.
house-door."
been but two days arrived from Africa, his native country.
child and the little fawn.
There was once a woman who had three daughters, of whom the eldest was
of her? She is the admiration of the whole town, for her fasting, her
    De lo mucho que han pensado.»
who performed, according to the custom of the country, singing at the
fusión de espíritus, de enlace de corazones. Yo dí el «sí» así,
time the divan generally broke up, when the sultan, rising, returned to
sleep for a little while, and we will come and fetch you in the evening,
was desirous to see my native country again, and to embrace my dear
she always stands up from the beginning to the breaking up of the
On the sixth day, however, after the divan was broken up, when the
African magician, "I will carry you with me to-morrow, clothe you as
I will have it completed with the utmost expedition." The sultan granted
bien nunca. Queda siempre un sordo resentimiento. Y el resentimiento--la
as to give a new lamp for an old one, without taking anything for the
attended by a great crowd of ladies, slaves, and mutes, who walked on
y discreta reina rumana, y repite a su hija estas palabras que pueden
a compás y hay entre ellos mutua resonancia. El amor, en una palabra,
partir de aquel momento, resultó triste, medio aguada y deslucida.
marriage.
mine, by making your son happy in marriage with the princess my
plate, which is of the finest silver we use in our shops, I will let you
carried him to his own home.
she stood before it to look at herself she would say:
every day that I give audience, with something wrapped up in a napkin;
them the king of the country.
Do not be afraid that the liquor will spoil your clothes, for it is not
and the next morning I found myself in this unknown country, which I am
señoritas a admitir y hasta a estimular las insinuaciones del hombre,
This offer induced Aladdin to pull his plate from tinder his vest and
conjuga en presente, sino en futuro imperfecto. La felicidad, como la
bring me his answer."
late brother's; and during that time have travelled into the Indies,
handsome and well polished.
and vexation when she recognised in the young bride Snow-white herself,
Grethel," she cried to the maiden, "be quick and draw water; Hansel may
gestiones pedidas, sino aquella que, sin pedírselo nadie, se pone a
huntsman had seen enough to make him full of wonder, when he returned
different man from what he was before. His skin was clear as that of a
earn sufficient to supply their daily food.
cariño es el rescoldo hecho de la buena y diaria lumbre del hogar, de la
At this account, Aladdin was thunderstruck, and he bethought himself of
defectos de las demás mujeres». Y luego agrega por cuenta propia: «Los
also in its murmuring waters, the sister heard the words--
satisfy my extreme hunger."
favour of thy countenance." "Your crime!" answered the sultan, "wretched
as he could into his breast, offered him his basket, and bade him choose
magician, opened his vest, took out the lamp which was carefully wrapped
signal, had the drugged cup brought to her, which she gave to the
más apetecible conquista. Con éste el «no» tiene que ser histórico. La
try if what she says is true, for I am very hungry," so she said:
He looked down at her as she stood by his horse, and said: "Little Two
Aladdin, who had seen such a phantom in the cavern, snatched the lamp
could say to him, but still continued crying, "Who will change old lamps
particular apliqué una saludable desconfianza. Por último me enamoré de
whole pane of barley-sugar from the window, and seated herself to eat
she looked out of the window and said:
sooner out of his mouth, than the genie transported him into Africa, to
propiamente ideas sobre el mundo, no tiene aun la señorita--asaltan su
devoted to mutual explanations of all that had happened, the sultan
Aladdin, who was now no longer restrained by the fear of a father, gave
Grethel, however, guessed what she wanted to do, and said, "I don't know
worse treatment by an invisible agency, he determined to declare the
thee as thy slave, and the slave of all those that have that ring on
pebble from his pocket on the ground as they walked.
"Two Eyes." The youngest had three eyes, two like her second sister, and
storehouses, stables full of the finest horses, with their equerries and
no es lo mismo que conocer, y el amor suele confundir estos dos valores
it was good silver, asked Aladdin at how much he valued it. Aladdin, who
than she began to lace so fast and pull so tight that Snow-white could
cenobio, el enclaustramiento; pero sí cierto recogimiento que sólo se
overjoyed that they ran into each other's arms, and kissed each other
¿Cuándo se produce de modo integral, con las potencias todas de nuestro
like feathers, a queen sat at a window netting. Her netting-needle was
gran hombre puso otra vez: «cero».--«Es noble»--«Cero».--«Tiene muy
The magician presently set them on fire; and when they were in a blaze,
hunting-knife to thrust into Snow-white's innocent heart, she fell on
could not believe the joyful tidings, hastened herself to the window,
into the town she does an infinite deal of good; for there is not a
thanks, who thus addressed him: "As you are soon to be a merchant, it is
bridegroom in their own chamber, the sultan came to the door to offer
he may wait long enough!"
the forest? we thought you were never coming back," But their father was
When night came, the bride and bridegroom were again attended to their
the fawn heard the holloa, he could not rest in peace, but begged his
dejarnos llevar de impresiones fugaces y transitorias. A los 25 años
splendid palace of Prince Aladdin. Directly he saw the wonderful fabric,
casamentera, como el poeta, nace, no se hace. Los procedimientos son
her lips vermilion. It is not therefore surprising that Aladdin, who had
three on the right hand and three on the left.
told her in what a state he found the princess, and how she had received
genie thence led him to the stables, where were some of the finest
Three Eyes saw it all with her one eye. But she pretended to be asleep
with extraordinary fruit of different colours on each tree. Some bore
PRESENTACIÓN EN SOCIEDAD
concierte su unión. Por regla general es más frecuente la tendencia
beautiful Snow-white lying in it, and read what was written upon the lid
concepto fantástico fraguado por su insensatez. Hay el hombre que se las
before Aladdin's mother recovered from her swoon.
tempting, of a pale green with rosy cheeks, so that it made everyone's
The second exclaimed, "Who has been eating from my little plate?"
trémula de emoción. Se va a presentar en sociedad; está por asomarse al
appearance, but she could not help saying;
for some minutes. At last she went into the ballroom, but the slippers
   None can with thee at all compare."
for breakfast and dinner, and perhaps supper too."
sultan and to the vizier. They undid in a few hours what they had been
and rest, and I will sing to you, Three Eyes."
elogian el ingenio, la gracia, la belleza, la elegancia o cualquier otra
graciosas. Los ángeles son inferiores a la pareja que trata de unir. Y
concourse of people through whom he passed made the air echo with their
sharp stones and through the thorns, and though the wild beasts sprang
viceversa. Y justo es reconocer que algunas veces salen buenos
keep within doors while the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, the sultan's
He waits for you with impatience."
When Aladdin found himself at liberty, he again addressed the sultan:
slaves, each carrying on her head a different dress for Aladdin's
last they caught sight of their father's house. Then they began to run,
but at the end of the forty days, forget not to present yourself before
cuestión es ardua y llena todas las bibliotecas del universo, sin que se
replaced in their apartment, when the sultan came to make his
their heads, cried out in wonder as they beheld the sleeping child. "Oh,
de la verdadera causa de aquellas amarguísimas lágrimas, hicieron
Lo primero que ha de hacer es darse cuenta de la situación personal de
"Who has been eating my vegetables?" said the fourth.
No sooner, however, was she reduced to ashes than the charm which held
the poisoned piece of apple which Snow-white had bitten to roll out of
marriage that day. "Sire," said Aladdin, "though great is my impatience
nudo que la emoción forma en la garganta. Todas esas escenas de comedia,
awaited him with the utmost impatience. As soon as Aladdin saw him, he
nuestra fantasía en complicidad con los errores de percepción de
but give me leave to sit opposite to it, that although I see not the
threw in some incense, pronouncing several magical words, which Aladdin
footsteps, she rushed away as quickly as she could.
Shortly after her arrival at the princess's apartment, the sultan
piden informes, detalles, y ella repite impertérrita: «le digo que está
At another time Aladdin would have been frightened at the sight of so
he saluted her with an air that expressed his joy. "To lose no time,"
talking together over their sorrow, and the poor husband sighed, and
agreement they communicated with each other once a year, however widely
Hansel had seen no cat, but he stayed behind every time to drop a white
Very soon after this the queen had a little daughter who was very fair,
them for supper plenty to eat and drink--milk and pancakes and sugar,
in one of the gardens, on the brink of a fountain of clear water, which
preguntaron por la causa de su llanto, y respondió que se había puesto
tipo, que tiene su propia alma, su carácter propio y sus propias mañas;
cualidades.
his fondest expectations, he said, "Genie, there is one thing wanting, a
On the next audience day, when Aladdin's mother went to the divan, and
sometimes to one mosque, and sometimes to another, to prayers, or to
ceremonies were at last brought to a conclusion, and the princess and
that the stepmother had been there again; but on seeing the poisoned
dinner, and wash and sew and knit for us, and keep everything neat and
country, and as he was approaching a river, he fell down the bank with
returning soon after, found the window, as he wished it to be, like the
children must go away; we will take them deeper into the forest this
dismount.
nuestras abuelas. El «sí», a una proposición de matrimonio, cuando el
opinión externa, tan unánime, tan complacida en su obra, tan convencida
donaire; pero es la dulzura la que más retiene al hombre. Y la felicidad
otra persona, surgen la adhesión y el amor hacia ella. Entonces es
and said to him, "Carry this, child, to your mother; tell her that I
excepto cuando me eligió a mí. Bueno; pues yo nunca le contradigo,
and his pretended nephew acquainted.
Aladdin thanked him for his fair dealing, and never after went to any
thoughtful and melancholy than usual; and asked what had happened to
halls just as the African magician had described. He went through them
La incompatibilidad de caracteres es lo más deplorables de la vida
and happy. Then his sister fastened the string of rushes to his collar,
  "Little goat, when you are able,
"You paragon of beauty," said the wicked woman, "all has just happened
nuestras primeras familias. Mi amiga era linda, inteligente, discreta.
carácter de lo moldeado. La vida es breve, y pasarla en disputa
any reply to his inquiries conducted him to the grand saloon, where the
you for it whatever you ask."
the palace to be again filled up.
diaria, eche sus raíces el cariño, porque es éste, el santo cariño,
the door of the bath, she took off her veil, and gave Aladdin an
cannot live without her. If you will let me have her, she shall be
her little apron to see the glittering pearls and precious stones
began to lose all patience, and was extremely fatigued with staying so
he dismounted, he retired to his own chamber, took the lamp, and
when Aladdin told him that he had sold him twelve such, for a piece of
that she might see through the lattices he had not exaggerated in his
She was glad to sit down, for the walk and the heat of the sun had
dueña de casa donde se realiza el baile. La función de la dueña de casa
Then was Snow-white taken out of the coffin and placed in a carriage to
voy a permitirme dar a las señoritas un consejo, fruto de mi
magnificent apparel, ordered them to be brought before her apartment,
Poor Snow-white could not refuse such a present, so she opened the door
saying, "How rich, how beautiful!" After he had admired and handled all
last morsel with his children.
would purchase the shop. He then led him out at one of the gates of the
Come, let us go home!"
rendered him, as well as himself, invisible, and transported him into a
when your father has finished his work."
carácter dulce». Y entonces el sabio heleno, el más sabio de los siete
    «Que muchos que se han casado
when he thought that he saw the vacancy created by the disappearance of
tell her that I will visit her to-morrow, that I may see where my good
bitter tears as she listened, and said to her brother, "What is going to
que entre los hombres dedicados a la vida intelectual, los mejor
for them to be admitted, they met with no obstacle, but went into the
this present as the dowry demanded for the princess, that he may judge
where, after the Jew had examined the weight of the tray, he laid down
hogar. A mí, personalmente, me produce la impresión de un canario
El «no» de las niñas requiere, no una comedia como el «sí» de las niñas,
Then the eldest looked at his bed, and, seeing that it looked tumbled,
término, antes que la mujer. Además, son un poco raros y no poco
"Sit down here, children, and rest, while I go and find your father, who
filled the two new purses his uncle had bought for him with his clothes,
When she heard this she was so terrified that the blood rushed to her
reach their father's house till break of day.
    Suelen después hallar poco,
"What nice tit-bits they will be!" Then she laid hold of Hansel with her
he went out, he caused two slaves, who walked by the side of his horse,
"No, thank you," cried Snow-white; "I dare not take it."
stuffs, and jewellery, and, oftentimes joining in their conversation,
daughter.
more, "New lamps for old ones," but made the best of his way to his
larga convivencia nos demostrará si el corazón está bien puesto, en
purse and gave it him, though it was but the sixtieth part of the worth
profit, was vexed he had not penetrated into his ignorance, and was
room. "There cannot be two queens," said the king to himself, "so
only a white duck which came swimming towards the children. "Perhaps she
celebrated with great splendour, and the fawn was taken the greatest
in happiness and safety.
Por lo demás algo hay de cierto en eso de que el matrimonio es la tumba
little sister, let me in."
free; the old witch is dead." He flew like a bird out of his cage at
Aladdin retired to his own apartment and summoned the genie of the lamp,
rid of that odious child."
and make haste."
long. But there is no harm done; I will go again to-morrow; perhaps the
espiritual. Por esto en otra crónica hemos defendido las ventajas del
would have preferred figs, or grapes, or pomegranates; but as he had his
they came from.
with the earth over it in the same manner as it lay at the arrival of
said to his wife, who was not the mother of his children, but their
to examine them with her at his leisure. The fourscore slaves were
llamar condiciones externas Combina matrimonios en frío, como un
delighted that they would not awaken her, but left her to sleep as long
present darkness to a speedy death. In this great emergency he said,
they would be taken care of.
"you may rejoice you are arrived at the height of your desires. The
like the rest were in vain, sent for the jewellers and goldsmiths, and
aturdidos, inseguros. Las alas son tiernas, débiles, y no han adquirido
haya resuelto satisfactoriamente. Sólo insistiré, para concluir, en que
therefore he was obliged to bring him home with him to his mother's,
As soon as he recovered, he related to his mother all that had happened
THE ENCHANTED STAG
"Remain here, children, and rest, while I go to help your father, who is
come to a final resolution. I hope, before that time, my son, whom you
de sus simpatías e inclinaciones, etc. Debe presentar a los que se
coquetería, o por curiosidad. El amor propio adopta muchas veces el
not harm me." So she unbolted the door, and told her to come in. Oh, how
festivos. Este entrometimiento tiene también un calificativo popular:
contemplate and admire Aladdin's place, his amazement was unbounded to
of my misfortune."
mouth water to look at it, but whoever ate even a small piece must die.
marriage to be cancelled, and all the festivities, which were yet to
festivities on the following day, in continued celebration of the royal
quite well, and as they walked on, the more familiar it became, till at
ser amado sin serlo; pues, en este caso la herida es doble, en el amor y
keep him a prisoner till to-morrow dawn, and then return with him here."
A few days after this, the huntsmen were again in the forest; and when
que nos lleva a entregar a otro corazón el reinado sobre el nuestro.
him. "Mother," said he, "have I an uncle?" "No, child," replied his
bring me something to eat." The genie disappeared immediately, and in an
grass to tire Three Eyes, and at last she said, "Let us sit down here
the magician had last left him, and no sign of cave or opening, nor
his uncle to tell him he was ready to give him the lamp; but in vain,
and gave him the coffin. Then the prince called his servants, and the
well dressed, was transported with joy, and bestowed a thousand
to rain, and the little sister said, "See, brother, heaven and our
me," replied the boy.
metáforas, falsas imágenes y seductoras demencias. El origen del amor y
sizes, piled up to the top with money, ranged all round the chamber. The
as I expected," and then she went away quickly.
Aladdin's mother listened with surprise to what her son told her; but
fundamental de su vida.
suppliant at his divan in such humble guise, to be now more richly and
las aves noctívagas pamperas, experimenté muchas impresiones en nuestro
After these words, Aladdin's mother burst into tears; and the magician
rejoicings.
  "Young queen, thou are so wondrous fair,
could stuff in his little coat pockets. He then went back to Grethel and
The druggist, judging Aladdin by his habit to be very poor, told him he
soon after retired.
The dwarfs talked a little while together, and then one said, "Do you
¿por qué negárselo? Alguna vez él mismo sale de su error, y entonces,
en fin, de un libro interesante, ameno instructivo, en el cual, a la
huntsmen, so when you come back in the evening, and knock, I shall not
Aladdin's mother brought the china dish, when he took the jewels out of
the magician went at night, and, plunging a poniard into her heart,
can express, and am resolved that I will ask her in marriage of the
breadcrumbs all along the road we came, and they will easily point out
set it down. "Remove the bridegroom," said Aladdin to the genie, "and
dijéramos el cadete, ni la señorita, la niña, que acaba de asomarse al
light and nimble for them to catch, till a shot wounded him slightly in
Así, pues, amigas mías, antes de casarse conviene haber bailado mucho,
carácter, en lo que es ahora (punto de relativa importancia), y en lo
glass, stones of inestimable value; but he had the prudence not to
munching away at the cakes of which it was made. Presently a voice came
le molestaría mi advertencia, significándole que tiene malos ojos, y los
rehuya con discreción sus insinuaciones. Su falta de percepción es
she had bought a few things, the old woman said, "Let me try this comb
beautiful woman in the land, her jealousy gave her no peace. After a
so beautifully, has been killed by my mother, and I shall have again to
slaves who carried the purses he ordered likewise to march before him,
the palace would be ready for her reception in the evening. She went,
my father's castle and be my wife."
mother's door, the joy to see her and his weakness for want of
del matrimonio está en retenerse mutuamente. Palabras suaves, conceptos
they might point out the way home; but his stepmother had locked the
backward, than the door was opened, and Aladdin admitted to the hall.
me nothing to eat but what is left, so that I am always hungry. To-day
sus donaires espirituales.
home, and went on alone so quickly that he arrived there before the
"Princess," said Aladdin, interrupting her, "you have explained all by
left for her, but she did not touch them. The next morning she went away
el círculo de amigos sea extenso, para repartir equitativamente la
nuestras vanidades hemos inducido en error al pretendiente. En tal caso,
leave with as much politeness as if he had been bred up and had always
tray, the same number of covered dishes as before, set them down, and
Lanzáronse todas las parejas a bailar y ella se quedó sola. Su situación
to enter on the honour granted me by your majesty, yet I beg you to
and to regain possession of the lamp, on which all my prosperity
she slept; for her skin was snow white, her cheeks rosy red, and her
constante equivale a cambiar la felicidad relativa por un potro de
han pasado a la historia. En todas las bodas reales ha intervenido el
wood for our coffins." And after this she let him have no peace till he
atendidas y solicitadas en los bailes como las más lindas. Una fea se
He then quickly learnt about the wealth, charities, happiness, and
impresión más completa de su poquedad, de su insignificancia en el
conditions to the marriage that no one of the humble condition of
exhaled from the dishes. "Child," said she, "to whom are we obliged for
gardens, into which anybody might enter. At every building he came to,
and hence his journey to China. His art had also told him that he was
vizier; and finding from him that his son had been subjected to even
Then she related to them all that had happened; how her stepmother had
white pebble stones which lay before the cottage door glistened like new
Then the knight lifted the little maiden on his horse, and rode home
existencia. La trasformación de la niñez en pubertad trae también un
acquainted with since his arrival, he gave them a treat, to bring them
So they pushed her about, and threw all their old clothes to her for her
Aladdin had not long concealed himself before the princess came. She was
On Aladdin's arrival at the palace, the sultan was surprised to find him
silence, and thereupon went immediately to the sultaness's apartment,
extraordinary a figure, but the danger he was in made him answer without
the house in which Aladdin lived. Each black slave carried on his head a
la ingenua y cursililla comedia de Moratín, que hizo las delicias de
magnificence.
the hands of the slaves who brought them, with an order to throw them by
took one of the dishes, and went to look for his Jew chapman; but
forest had picked them all up.
rough hand, dragged him out of bed, and led him to a little cage which
baby, and one of them pretended to be a nurse, and at last got the
As soon as he was out of sight of the two palaces, he hastened down the
they wandered farther, but as they approached, she heard in the bubbling
Eyes?"
verdad que tales enlaces sólo pueden concertarse entre contrayentes que
and braided them into a soft string, which she fastened to the fawn's
and admire his palace, and said, "You ought to know where your palace
"Everything that is pretty," she replied; "laces, and pearls, and
the slave of all those who have that lamp in their hands; I, and the
of the air came near and mourned for Snow-white; first the owl, then the
    "Who drinks of me, a wolf will be."
to close two of her eyes, and they slept, but not the third. In fact,
fear, and they asked her name.
el trance, desagradable siempre, de decir «no» claramente ha sido
On his return he had recourse to an operation of geomancy to find out
sticks you can see, to kindle a fire with."
husband felt heavy at heart, for he thought it was better to share the
said Aladdin, "let us sit down and eat; for you have almost as much need
off a branch, yet everybody who passes will stop to admire it, and make
buena y simpática, pues tiende a proteger un amor concertado.
He had scarcely done so when the earth opened just before the magician,
And this jealousy and envy grew every day stronger and stronger in her
quicio permanente.
stepmother was dead.
mention this to any one, not even to his mother.
But the elder dwarf answered, "We would not give it thee for all the
quiero», dice el hombre de bien, que seguramente cumple lo que dice.
the midst of a large plain, where his palace stood, at no great distance
home; but it was no use, they only went still deeper into the wood, and
soon arrived at the mouth of the cave, where the African magician
pero es así. Yo procuré siempre hacer lo contrario. A cada caso
children. When once they were in her power, she would feed them well
with her to his father's castle. There she was given beautiful clothes
One of them, however, determined to follow him at a distance, and
retired.
Lo primero que se debe considerar en todo consejo es la posición de
mother, emboldened by the sight of these rich jewels, and fearful lest
mujer tiene ascensos y descensos y momentos de plenitud. De todos modos,
to be tired: "Come, nephew," said he, "you must be weary as well as I;
han logrado estas crónicas; aparte su mérito literario, puesto de
that the king would then marry her daughter; but on the king speaking to
mañana»--decía el joven. El filósofo escribía: «cero».--«Es rica, como
no tengan un gusto muy personal y definido, una individualidad
children, and said, "Get up, you lazy bones, and come into the wood with
The cunning Jew took the dish, examined it, and as soon as he found that
"Ah yes," replied the maiden, "I would willingly; but I cannot leave my
Snow-white, when she heard it, peeped through the window, and said,
de las lágrimas. El amor tiene un enemigo que le vence siempre: el
mother. He embraced him with all the demonstrations of joy, and when he
Early in the morning, before the children were awake, she was up,
been ready to tear her heart out of her body, she hated the maiden so
palace, attended by his grand vizier and all the lords of his court. The
golden apples that she had plucked along with her.
vanish so soon, and not leave the least remains behind. In his
you have had enough, and you do not want the table any more, you need
that, after wandering about for a whole day, she had found their house.
When Aladdin had thus prepared himself for his first interview with the
fulfill my promise as soon as he shall send me forty trays of massy
recovered himself, he received the present from Aladdin's mother's hand;
lose it if he failed.
materia de amor, como ha dicho un glorioso padre de la Iglesia, el
bride and bridegroom.
Then she went into a lonely forbidden chamber where no one was allowed
mariposas en torno del foco luminoso.
espiritual del pretendiente. Y con esto queda demostrado que el «no» es
more richly and magnificently robed than he had ever been himself, and
nought. This night the grand vizier's son is to marry the Princess
disculpable y justifica el empecinamiento. En este caso se impone el
After the sultan had finished this magnificent entertainment, provided
had bewitched all the springs and streams in the forest. The pleasant
perhaps, if it were gone, I might not be so some moments hence;
They would have buried her then, but there was no change in her
please him, she asked him to exchange cups with her, and giving the
"And I shall die of grief," he said, "if I remain here listening to the
he prepared the sand, cast the points, and drew the figures. On
well again, and now they had nothing to fear, for their wicked
Now this wicked queen had some knowledge of witchcraft, and she knew how
myself." And he begged so hard that at last she reluctantly consented.
of the people, who wished him all happiness and prosperity. As soon as
Then Hansel and Grethel raised quite a high heap of brushwood and
and Aladdin. When the contract had been drawn, the sultan asked Aladdin
sustenance made him so faint that he remained for a long time as dead.
beautiful goods to sell."
Colocado al alcance de todo el mundo, el almidón es un símbolo
over the enchanted brother, and the fawn wept also.
sultan may not be so busy."
when her sister came to wake her and told her she was going home.
of them and give them all they wanted. And then they did indeed repent
A pesar de mi temor para hablar de esta materia, me atrevo a insinuar
but retired to his chamber. There he rubbed his lamp, and the obedient
arreglado todo». En el círculo va pasando la voz: «todo está arreglado».
perished with cold, by standing in his thin under-garment all night, no
matrimonio es un accidente, mientras que para la mujer es el hecho
entendimiento; que el discurrir bien no excluye el sentir profundamente.
dicen: «mi mujer es una pastaflora», dan a su expresión un tono de
After these words, Aladdin's mother prostrated herself a second time;
mother and son, that they were astonished beyond measure. Aladdin's
have a care that you do not touch the walls so much as with your
visit the grand vizier or the principal lords of the court. Every time
probabilidad de acierto. Antes de esa edad corremos el riesgo de
this she called her feast-day. Fortunately the witch had weak eyes, and
mundo. El fracaso de una señorita en un baile recae siempre sobre la
no sooner had she taken one mouthful than she fell on the ground dead.
but notwithstanding the crowd of people was great, she got into the
drew on; but no one came to fetch the poor children. When they awoke it
find that it could nowhere be seen. He could not comprehend how so large
La mujer, al empezar a vivir, al iniciarse en la sociedad, más que
que de él diga la señorita, y si no dice nada, la casamentera lo
carancho con la lechuza; porque mi marido nunca tuvo buena vista,
Aladdin's mother conducted the bride to the nuptial apartment, and he
Aladdin's mother took the china dish, in which they had put the jewels
naturalista, dotado de buenos ojos. Y si es feliz con mi asentimiento,
The magician never doubted but this was the lamp he wanted. There could
obey you; but among us all we cannot furnish jewels enough for so great
genie, the faithful slave of the lamp, to the great amazement and alarm
las dueñas de casa y a las mismas señoritas que no tienen la suerte de
out of his mother's hand, and said to the genie boldly, "I am hungry,
«planchadoras». Pero en esto mismo no hay que abusar; no se debe endosar
manera muy distinta en el cristal ilusorio de nuestro espíritu. Este
espíritu rico en sensibilidad producen muchos goces, también acarrean
sultan's palace to entreat him to take a repast in the princess's
The chief hunter very soon espied the beautiful fawn with the golden
before the grand vizier, the other viziers, and the great officers of
respetable clase social. Su misión no puede ser más importante. Gracias
worthy of his uncle's favour, served up supper, at which they talked of
have, and could easily discover when human beings were near. As Hansel
Periandro, no se sabe cuál; lo mismo da, cualquiera....) tenía un
she, "I have not a bit of bread to give you; you ate up all the
dark, cold earth."
of the bride and bridegroom, took up the bed, and by an agency invisible
morning and stay out all day, playing in the streets and public places
princess's face, which he determined to gratify, by placing himself
with genies? I never heard that any of my acquaintance had ever seen
really before her; it had a white cloth and plates, and knives and
opinion of Aladdin, who took such care of his mother, and made her share
que es el signo externo de la civilización: el almidón. No creemos
entrance, and led her into a large hall, illuminated with an infinite
from him the unhappy treatment she had been subject to, and told him all
Ya se ve, pues, cómo el «no» es más difícil que el «sí» de las niñas. Y
resto de la noche. Es necesario, como vulgarmente se dice, entrar con
the lamp, which he carried about him, rubbed it, and presently the genie
buen pie. Al efecto, nunca se debe entrar sola en el salón. Ello es de
yo, por mi parte, traté de verle el alma a la luz de un constante
siempre en primera fila para ser vista; la inteligencia se coloca detrás
agraciadas, contribuyendo a mantener en ellas esa deleznable ilusión
Quedamos, pues, en que dar el «sí» es facilísimo; sale solo; se revela
halla la mujer en mejor disposición espiritual para enamorarse y, en
going to run after him, to endeavour to get some change out of the piece
Then said the fifth, "Some one has used my fork."
this time." When she came home, full of these thoughts, she told Aladdin
The sultan's amazement and surprise were inexpressible, when he saw so
them:
She placed herself just before the sultan, grand vizier, and the great
repentino, una relampagueante emoción; pero luego aplicaba serenamente
first time, durst not offer him less, for fear of losing so good a
but all to no purpose: the dear child gave no signs of life, and at last
the day before. Nor did he forget to take with him the Wonderful Lamp,
consiste en inspirar amor. No se resigna a pasar inadvertida. De ahí que
creo que le voy a parecer bonita al mundo». Y esta idea optimista,
mother, "you have no uncle by your father's side or mine." "I am just
ensueños.
who knew how dim her old eyes were, always stuck a bone through the bars
pequeñas. Con éste conviene envolver el «no» en un ligero «titeo»
She would not, however, let him speak to her, but pretended that she
very cold here."
And as soon as she arrived at home, and asked her mirror who was the
bien? ¿Qué más da que aquello que voló sea lechuza o sea carancho o sea
and when she arose, said, "Monarch of monarchs, I beg of you to pardon
do him, will gladly do, when you must give him the cup containing this
necessary, both for food and ornament.
children and the mob.
veras, con la reflexión y con el sentimiento. La reflexión me decía que
The two children, who also were too hungry to sleep, heard all that
for you to be seen." Then they pushed the poor girl, in great haste,
one in my forehead remained open."
solícita a las que ya tienen cierta reputación de «planchadoras», para
I will cut the apple in halves; you shall have the rosy-cheek side, and
for, while you are asleep, they might be running all over the world.
trate más de ser ella interesante que de ver quién podría ser
So they went together, and when the king saw it he sent his companion
hall, you will find a door which opens into a garden, planted with fine
At last they were so tired that their poor little legs could carry them
desconozcan, intervenir como lazo de relación, procurar, en una palabra,
"Stop your crying!" cried the old woman; "it is not of the least use, no
"Stand still, dear fawn; don't fear, I must take care of you, but I will
firme, permanente, fijo, como la estrella polar?
surge de la conveniencia y no al contrario, la conveniencia del amor,
es mucho peor hacer escarnio de su afecto, induciéndole en el error de
these conditions I am ready to bestow the princess my daughter upon him;
had a greater inclination to that business than to any other, and that
dan consistencia definitiva a ciertos sentimientos.
came to herself, and related all that had passed.
Frecuentemente se ven también algunas muchachas bonitas que «planchan».
son pardos. Entre dos luces todos los gatos son azules, que es el color
espirituales superiores. Y así debe ser, porque para el hombre el
sprang back as she put out her hand.
de él a ella y de ella a él, una chismosa del bien, si vale expresarse
wicked stepmother soon got ready, and dressing herself again like an old
handsomely. Never let her appear before my eyes again."
they thought it would be best to put the two meals together; yet, after
leave of his uncle to go home; the magician would not let him go by
sultan's palace, where he had free access; and at last brought him to
were of massy gold, and contained the most delicate viands. The vases,
seven little knives and forks, and seven mugs. By the wall stood seven
aside for her, Three Eyes said to her mother, "I know where the proud
sultan: "Sire, I come at the end of three months to ask of you the
walk at an equal distance from each other, the lustre of their jewelled
own natural shape, and appeared before them a tall, handsome young man.
completo este conocimiento, ya que el matrimonio no es, en el fondo,
used all the jewels the sultan had, and borrowed of the vizier, but yet
bath of the finest marble of all sorts of colours; where he was
informed more particularly who that holy woman was, and what sort of
actitud, oprimir el brazo, asirnos a él, suele ser la más corriente como
sultan, "and will give orders about it immediately."
"But I am all right," said the farmer's wife. "Stay, I will show you my
perdonen mis amigas que me ponga como ejemplo; lo haré pocas veces)
"He shall remain with you as long as you live," replied the king, "and I
santos, decimos que la mujer llega al matrimonio en condiciones
hoy aparecen los chispeantes artículos de la distinguida escritora
the sultan. Aladdin rose before daybreak, awakened his mother, pressing
El «gancho», tiene, pues, glorioso abolengo histórico, y no debe
habernos excedido al aplicar a las planchadoras el calificativo de
it, when the door opened, and a strange-looking old woman came out
basin of massy gold, full of pearls, diamonds, rubies, and emeralds.
might not know she was away.
And she climbed up, and, without any trouble, broke off a branch with
Fortunately evening soon arrived, and the seven dwarfs returned home.
is no bridge of any sort."
to beg for alms. Little Two Eyes saw them, and, looking earnestly in
salón, le pareció un acto intempestivo; quedarse allí, sola y abandonada
But although the old woman pretended to be friendly, she was a wicked
expected, and told her son with much joy the condescending answer she
sultaness. I want also ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses; go,
the way home."
adquirimos mala idea de quien nos suministra la información».
"May I try?" said little Two Eyes; "perhaps I may succeed."
attended by her women slaves, in the same order as on the preceding day.
mentales. Con la imaginación creamos sujetos propios, modelos que nada
her to go to the sultan's palace, and to get admittance, if possible,
ask him to exchange cups with you, which he, gratified at the honour you
sultan closed his morning audience, according to the terms in which it
what he desired executed in an instant. The genie then returned, and
Aladdin's mother took the lamp and said to her son, "Here it is, but it
ve con mayor claridad. Según el adagio vulgar, de noche todos los gatos
show their joy according to their ability. The streets were crowded with
Aladdin found so many dried sticks, that he soon collected a great heap.
attended in person.
inútil si falta lo esencial, la reciprocidad de un intenso afecto, la
contrario. La experiencia y los años nos aferran a determinadas ideas y
So when little Two Eyes started with her goat, Three Eyes followed, and
"This tree belongs to us," said the two sisters, "and we will break off
seen the children go away, and, following them cautiously like a snake,
the daytime, and the variety of the colours, so dazzled the eyes both of
supper; she often knocks us about, and threatens to kick us out of the
remoto. Ya vendrá un día en que vuelva sus ojos, acaso tristes, acaso
to them, transported it in an instant into Aladdin's chamber, where he
their trades. He went into that of the druggists; and entering one of
herir su amor propio de naturalista? ¿Para qué recordarle que no ve
slaves of the lamp, immediately transported him and the palace, entire,
But Hansel did not look back any more; he only dropped pieces of bread
But how surprised the poor wood-cutter was when Grethel opened and shook
princess; but the change was no sooner made than the place rung with the
fruit entirely white, and some clear and transparent as crystal; some
socialistas, que buscan la igualdad haciendo que desciendan las clases
general y confían en ellos en particular. Esto es un poco inexplicable,
humana. «¡Te amo!», dice Don Juan, que nunca fué un hombre honrado. «Te
obey.
boil something good for your brother, who is shut up in a cage outside
The private door, which was just under the princess's apartment, was
will look, when we have arranged them according to their different
mutua adhesión, del perdón mutuo, de la recíproca tolerancia, de los
encuentra léxico para expresarse. Por eso el baile es su mejor auxiliar,
the evil eye of the old woman who was watching her. Presently she said,
subir las acciones de la belleza. Pero el prudente papá advierte que es
in the capital of the kingdom of China; also, that the person who had
opportunity of a full view of her face.
to death. The decree caused so much discontent among the people, whose
and in a month's time had not finished half their work. In short, they
pasarse de lista, pues no gusta generalmente a los hombres verse
have for some time observed a certain woman, who attends constantly
and asked:
began to weep and cry so bitterly that two little rivulets flowed from
"She will be devoured by wild beasts," he said to himself. But the
with a grace the most experienced horseman might envy. The innumerable
gold trays, and such precious stones to fill them? It is altogether out
the events of the night were not allowed to cast the least gloom on the
morning conveyed to the palace of the sultan. Scarcely had they been
relegadas o poco atendidas por los caballeros.
their stepmother had said to their father. Poor little Grethel wept
short interval of time.
window made Aladdin turn his head that way, and perceiving the princess,
conditions on which he consented to the marriage. "The sultan expects
said, "Sire, we are all willing to exert our utmost care and industry to
son, what is past cannot be recalled. By showing you the value of this
"the genie you saw is not the one who appeared to me. If you remember,
bien: el cañamazo, la belleza física, no resiste la tiranía del tiempo
her eye, and laughed aloud as she exclaimed:
but first show ms the house where you live."
basket, set all down in a spot where nobody saw him; then going down
the four-and-twenty windows, hearing a man cry something, and seeing a
desventura de las proscriptas del baile.
evening; but they could not get out of the wood, and were so hungry that
she became impatient, and said she could not wait any longer. "Go,
accesorio. Fortuna, belleza, equivalencia de posición social, todo es
The little dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found poor
from my hands, the greater pleasure he will do me." As soon as Aladdin's
brother; and finding I had strength enough to undertake so long a
maliciously, and said, with a sneer: "I have them now; they shall not
indicios de que es persona grata, como se dice en términos de
blessings upon the magician.
porque, donde no hay amor, todo es inconveniente.
Years went by, and as Snow-white grew up, she became day after day more
No es fácil hacer con discreción el «gancho». En realidad la
cruel del todo. A cambio de los pocos encantos físicos que nos concedió,
time, and the little sister had grown a lovely maiden, and the fawn a
his paternal home forever, and went to the palace in the same pomp as on
On the very next day, the magician set out and travelled with the utmost
so now. The children were awake, and heard all the conversation; so, as
duck; let her take us over one at a time."
show it to the goldsmith; who at first sight saw that it was made of the
  "Fair queen, there is none in all the land
basins, and goblets were gold also, and of exquisite workmanship, and
Aladdin showed the African magician the house, and carried the two
imperfect, to correspond exactly with the others. He fancied at first
siente siempre cierto reparo, cierto rubor, en mezclarse en estas
que al matrimonio, como a la muerte, es difícil llegar bien preparados.
sight, you are so like him." Then he gave Aladdin a handful of small
cursed genie's addressing himself rather to me than to you? Ah! my son,
quiero», es una frase más sencilla, más grave, más profunda y más
Little Two Eyes lived for a long time in great happiness; but she heard
lamp before he would help him up; and Aladdin, who had encumbered
uncle's permission, he resolved to gather some of every sort. Having
glass coffin, but showed not the least signs of decay. It seemed as if
lamp, and might have had whatever they wished for, yet they lived with
sheet of water.
woke, cried: "Get up, you lazy hussy, and draw some water, that I may
sume en el más completo desaliento y en la más profunda de las
sultan returned to his own apartment, he said to his grand vizier; "I
because he pulled it out before me, and showed it to me in triumph."
Aladdin had fetched some water, and sprinkled it in her face to recover
began to talk about her, and say that she would be more lovely even than
concepto. Y ahora y por siempre mi amor me lleva a ser como él me
of a good breakfast as myself; when we have done, I will tell you."
plucked them one after another, till she carried down her own little
There were once a brother and sister who loved each other dearly; their
analíticas y de observación. El mundo es para ella una maravilla
son's foolish imagination. "Where," said she, "can he get so many large
removed in the same mysterious manner as on the preceding evening; and
en medio del baile, no era menos desagradable y molesto. Y en medio de
testarudez es buena y honrosa en los generales que defienden un fortín.
carga. El mayor éxito, en fin, de la dueña de casa está en poner en
gift from the hands of another person. Hence he employed young Aladdin,
think you could be our little housekeeper, to make the beds, cook the
both sentenced to die--the daughter to be devoured by wild beasts, and
As soon as they reached a thick part of the wood, their stepmother said:
a slave to take it and make the exchange. The slave obeyed, went out of
name of "Three Eyes."
she could find no rest till she had tried to destroy it.
more success, for, as she appeared to grasp a branch, or fruit, her hand
she could not judge whether they were silver or any other metal, and the
Hansel and Grethel seated themselves by the fire, and when noon arrived
After traversing several streets, he came to that part of the town where
asked them if Aladdin had given them any reason for so doing, and they
Near the borders of a large forest dwelt in olden times a poor
quien lo da. Un consejo no es eficaz ni sirve para nada si la persona
suddenly, and would not hear a great many who were ready prepared to
answered the genie, "is not wholly in my power; I am only the slave of
   Snow-white over the mountain's brow
nor have you an uncle."
for me?"
La observación es exacta. El amor, en realidad, es un fanatismo, una de
Snow-white, you must never again let anyone in while we are not with
The next morning, when they all rose and looked out of the window, there
to which he owed all his good fortune, nor to wear the Ring which was
So they agreed to have a coffin made entirely of glass, transparent all
of the beds, but she found it difficult to choose one to suit her. One
her thoughts, she gave to the sultaness a precise description of all
other, "There is something strange about little Two Eyes, she leaves her
Las causas por las cuales se queda una «planchando» son muy variadas, y
the oven hot, and the dough is already kneaded." Then she dragged poor
verdadero caballero, un espíritu culto, un hombre distinguido de frac
the queen's brother in the form of a stag was broken; he recovered his
judged rightly that he would not sit again that day, and resolved to go
The princess received her mother with sighs and tears, and signs of deep
de engaño, ya que condujimos nuestro trato con él en forma que supusiera
Aladdin had conducted himself in this manner several years, when the
this, feeling very tired, she thought she would lie down and rest on one
thinking what would be best to do, for as long as she was not the most
De las condiciones del hombre en el matrimonio no me atrevo a hablar.
esta conducta de la mujer, por lo mismo que es una conducta noble,
succeed; and since his death, notwithstanding all I can say to him, he
audience, and affects to place herself just before me. If this woman
them the window which was unfinished. "I sent for you," said he, "to fit
paternal love, and therefore you ought to forgive the excesses to which
resulta una generosidad. Pero este punto exigiría, para ser bien
little bread from each plate, and drank a little drop of wine from each
am resolved, one of these days, to turn him out of doors, and let him
named "One Eye," because she had only one eye in the middle of her
snow, as rosy as the red blood, and with hair and eyes as black as
good intentions; and after having exhorted Aladdin to render himself
apologías rimadas que se han hecho de Don Juan: «quien ama a muchas, no
terribly frightened. But they spoke kindly to her, till she lost all
proper you should frequent these shops, and be acquainted with them." He
bake the bread." But if Grethel had obeyed her, she would have shut the
Invitada a un baile aristocrático, entró en el salón y se sentó.
of the evening, during which the princess had tried all she could to
six women slaves to attend her, as richly dressed at least as any of the
bade him bring her before the sultan. The old woman at once followed the
bondad algún caballero la saca a bailar, se aferra a él, añadiendo a su
mucha charla alambicada y sutil, es que en realidad no está
frightened, and knew not what to do. At last she began to run over the
palace, and a splendid carpet extending to it all the way from the
out of the wood?"
genie made no reply, but with the assistance of the other genies, the
trinkets, and a beautiful silk lace for her stays, but she did not see
her knees and wept, and said, "Ah, dear hunter, leave me my life; I will
I, and the other slaves of the lamp." "Hear me," said Aladdin; "thou
morning at daybreak the genie presented himself, and, having obtained
no occasion for my assistance," answered the magician; "if I help you,
treated with the greatest honour and respect as one dearly beloved."
But Two Eyes knew her thoughts; so she led the goat through the long
Early the next morning, when the sultan, according to custom, went to
touching it; and if you would take my advice, you would part also with
bondadosa, espiritual, exaltará más el amor del hombre, le hará más
"Madam," answered the slave, laughing still, "who can forbear laughing,
   But over the mountains is Snow-white free,
salir de su estado de crisálida. Sus primeros vuelos son inciertos,
complain of your conduct, since you did nothing but what your duty
enjoy her dinner! and when she had finished, she said, as the wise woman
not how to find our house; go and bring him, if you meet with him."
on his finger. Immediately a genie of frightful aspect appeared, and
que lo ofrece no se coloca en las circunstancias de aquella otra que ha
los maridos de sus respectivas esposas. Y he observado que cuando
permit me first to build a palace worthy to receive the princess your
than the poison took effect, and the maiden fell to the ground lifeless.
supper. On it were arranged seven little plates, seven little spoons,
casos, y concertando la paz, en otros, por medio de su «gancho» para
pieces of gold to his mother, who went out and bought provisions; and
mundo. Es un poco difícil determinar los orígenes y causas de esta
sobre su evidente importancia e insinuar algunas advertencias útiles a
made me; but I cannot marry the princess my daughter for three months;
said: "That old market-woman was no other than your wicked stepmother.
reveladora de nuestro gozoso asentimiento. La que para dar el «sí»
throne, and retired. On her way home, she laughed within herself at her
glossy."
Facilísimo es dar el «sí»--«el sí de las niñas»--como reza el título de
the attendants of the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, looking through the
LAS «PLANCHADORAS»
salen a relucir las flores, los arroyuelos, las estrellas, la luna, los
wandered about the whole night, and the next day from morning till
sentidos una dulce calma que no conturba nuestros juicios. Antes, todo
which they were appointed. The genie then showed him the treasury, which
seven little dwarfs, who dug and searched in the mountains for minerals.
similar testimonies of her extreme pleasure. After a short interval,
tierra sin sol. Pero siempre conviene que la imaginación inicie su vuelo
according to his fancy. But the brightness and lustre they emitted in
lords, who sat in council, on his right and left hand. Several causes
heart was moved with compassion: "Run away, then, thou poor child," he
in one place, said to Aladdin, "I thought, prince, that nothing in the
She seated herself when it appeared, and ate and drank very quickly, and
exagerada la afirmación, pues en realidad muere aquella favorable
  "Queen, thou are lovely still to see,
de relámpago estriba precisamente el peligro por lo que toca a la
EL GANCHO
presentación cause buen efecto. Está en ello comprometido el buen gusto
my wishes."
is cutting wood in the forest; when we have finished our work, we will
time, and they will not be able to find their way home as they did
CHAPTER III
pues, muy pocas palabras. La felicidad, según un filósofo francés, no se
bread, changed his money, and on his return gave the rest to his mother,
filósofo señor Bergeret) dice que el amor es como la devoció; llega un
Her sister laughed, and said, "Of course you can have that, if you don't
the ring, and not of the lamp." "I command thee, then," replied Aladdin,
for their dinner; and as long as they heard the strokes of the axe they
replied, "Genie, show me where the palace I caused to be built now
hearts weep together." At last, tired out with hunger and sorrow, and
No se enojarán los hombres, si apoyándonos en el testimonio de los
importantísimo que esta idea, punto de arranque de la emoción, sea
me."
at the door of Aladdin's chamber during the night, and at Aladdin's
massive gold and silver bricks laid alternately. Let each front contain
wandered about the city, exciting the wonder and compassion of the
When she knocked at the door, Snow-white stretched her head out of the
íntima ternura que revela cuánto impresiona a su espíritu esta cualidad
"Three Eyes," said the mother, "climb up, and try what you can do;
supply me with the richest and most magnificent robe ever worn by a
now declined to have any communication with him. For three days he
her great joy, a pretty little house. So she went up to it, and found
As they walked, Hansel, who had the bread in his pocket, broke off
son.
en el amor propio. Y las heridas de amor propio son aún más difíciles de
immediately called the chief of the mace-bearers, and pointing to her
dear children, who has brought you here? Come in, and stay with me for a
crear un ambiente de familiaridad para que el sarao resulte agradable,
China; where, after crossing plains, rivers, mountains, deserts, and a
under an empty cask, which stood near the tree, and several of the
Porque es menester no confundir el amor con su apariencia. Al saltar de
Full of joy, the king's son approached her, and said, "Dear Snow-white,
fruit, and during this short repast he exhorted his nephew to leave off
speculations and reports. Nobody but Aladdin knew the secret, and he
of him."
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
vanished.
coffin was placed on their shoulders, and they carried it away, followed
un ligero prontuario sobre la materia. Generalmente, la mujer llega al
the door, and cried, "Dear little sister, let me in." The door was
cried out that some one had been upon it. The others came running
interés; lo tienen, y muy grande, desde que le interesan a mi marido).
conmovedor para una mujer producir en un hombre esta exaltación
years old, without giving his mind to any useful pursuit, or the least
sparkling; her smile bewitching; her nose faultless; her mouth small;
los ojos, con el movimiento balbuciente de nuestros labios, oprimiendo
left him. "What wouldst thou have?" said the genie, "I am ready to obey
chimango? La cuestión es que él sea feliz creyéndose un excelente
nuestro espíritu ha logrado ya cierto grado de serenidad y nuestros
door and knock, and to hear him say, "Dear little sister, let me in."
named Mustapha. He was very poor. He could hardly, by his daily labour,
this mystery."
khan. His magic art soon revealed to him that Aladdin was the person who
the wood, and saw nothing but trees and leaves, was dreadfully
loaves, the two flagons and cups, and to smell the savoury odour which
other slaves of the lamp." "I am hungry," said Aladdin, "bring me
Venus sobre una tortuga, queriendo indicar a las mujeres de su pueblo
to pass through several streets to the palace, the whole length of the
time, she decided what to do. First, she painted her face, and whitened
The queen was furious when she heard this, for she knew the mirror was
the jewels one after another, he turned to his grand vizier, and showing
del amor. Pero la hora de la poesía fascinadora no es la hora en que se
triste duración.
Before Aladdin went home, he called at a baker's, bought some cakes of
"Hunter, I want to get rid of that child. Take her out into the wood,
little sister not to fret, but to go to sleep in peace, for he was sure
haste to the capital of China, where, on his arrival, he took up his
grooms, and hunting equipage, officers, attendants, and slaves, both men
Then the wicked woman uttered a curse, and was so dreadfully alarmed
you like," and she held up before the child's eyes the bright
fawn, I shall be here alone in the forest, forsaken by the whole world."
large porcelain dish fit to hold them; fetch it, and let us see how they
was obliged to dance. And so in the red, glowing shoes she continued to
bailando; pero lo dí sin palabras. De pronto, preguntó él: «Bueno,
relación amorosa.
he stopped her, and said, "Princess, retire to your apartment; and let
suffer from hunger and sorrow."
and elegant that it is beyond description. In the middle of the room
símbolos de los griegos, siempre graciosos, no siempre son razonables.
not forget to say what I told you, when you return this evening."
sister again to let him go.
seguro, pues sirve para demostrar que estamos solicitadas desde el
usual colour. Then said one, "We cannot lay this beautiful child in the
stag's foot wounded and bleeding. She quickly washed off the blood, and,
la heredera de Creso»--añadía el doncel. El genio griego volvía a
round the neck of the fawn; then she gathered some soft green rushes,
shut the iron door and fastened the bolt.
Eyes was not more skilful; with all her efforts she could not draw the
him, raised the stone with ease, and laid it on one side.
arbitrarios. Y entre los políticos se debe preferir, no a los dogmáticos
el dicho español. El diablo o el ángel es ese grado de seducción que
ningún hombre, cuyo porvenir espiritual, en el resto de su vida, acaso
on their way to the wood.
"I know what to do, husband," she replied; "early to-morrow morning we
observación, pronta en sus dichos, ocurrente, estará siempre atendida y
corazón no esté interesado; unas veces por demostrar a las demás que
toda pasión vehemente--y es el amor la más vehemente de todas--es
"Nonsense," she said; "that is not your pigeon; it is only the morning
why, but my heart is drawn towards this beautiful child, and I feel I
de una sociedad en que la mujer ha puesto su capital y el hombre
sultan's palace. When she came to the gates, the grand vizier, the other
delighted Snow-white was with the pretty things; she bought several
rebeldes. La fea, que «plancha» por serlo, tiene dos causas de
austerities, and her exemplary life. Except Mondays and Fridays, she
  Remove my nice table."
de casa debe contar con un grupo de caballeros que sean amigos de
palace of Aladdin.
who went and purchased provisions enough to last them some time. After
conviene Fulano». Ella, la casamentera, concierta lo que podríamos
daughter. I pray you to grant me sufficient ground near your palace, and
her, as he had done before, by telling her they need only wait till the
their finger; both I and the other slaves of the ring."
it hurried me." "Sire," replied Aladdin, "I have not the least reason to
charmed. "Well," continued the sultan, "what sayest thou to such a
spring the words--
peligrosos, porque su arte y su filosofía están siempre en primer
de la mujer. Ha terminado la infancia, que acaso sea lo mejor de la
Aladdin was just ready to go, when the magician knocked at the door, and
summoned the genie as usual, who professed his allegiance. "Genie," said
unir princesas y reyes. Las muchedumbres dejaron de matarse y colgaron
is true sultans ought to abide by their word, and I am ready to keep
Hansel tried to hide his fear when he made this sad discovery, and said
with.
Generalmente la casamentera no ha tenido grandes pasiones. Ignora las
después de diez años de frecuentar salones y alternar en el mundo se
   But not when Snow-white is near;
"Child, was not your father called Mustapha the tailor?" "Yes, sir,"
As soon as it was quiet, Hansel got up, put on his little coat,
   Who's eating up my house?"
Oh! how the old witch did howl, it was quite horrible to hear her. But
ever.
his mother to go to the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, and tell her that
beautiful animal, and started off in chase of him; but it was no easy
one will come to help you."
that she might lace her stays. But no sooner was the lace in the holes
error, significa en la mujer sentimientos aviesos, una travesura de mal
Then answered the children:
had taught her:
Argos que cuando elige cubierto con la venda de Cupido. El amigo Cupido
this dear brother only kept his own proper form, how happy they would
The goldsmith took a pair of scales, weighed the dish, and assured him
said, "I am going with you to-day, to see if the goats are properly fed
Se ha dicho muchas veces que el matrimonio es la tumba del amor. Por eso
the same frugality as before, and it may easily be supposed that the
discurramos un poco, aunque sea muy someramente, sobre la intromisión
the seventh, and that was so comfortable that she laid herself down, and
la bondad. La idea de la felicidad ajena guía su intervención. La
género de tramitaciones, manteniendo el equilibrio continental, en unos
spacious garden; but above all things, provide a safe treasure-house,
he knew that none but the genies, the slaves of the lamp, could have
The African magician, observing in Aladdin's countenance something which
bargain. When he had sold the last dish, he had recourse to the tray,
cualidad física o moral, lo hacen sin mayor calor. En cambio, cuando
agrega: «Según Schiller, la mujer tiene ojos de lince para ver los
of his power, and I believe he will not be much pleased with my embassy
estoy casada con un estanciero, hombre bonísimo, inteligente, gentil,
segunda envuelve una pesadumbre más profunda y definitiva. Expliquemos
The African magician stayed no longer near the palace, nor cried any
Then answered the mirror:
As soon as Aladdin found that their provisions were again expended, he
es ella la que alienta las primeras insinuaciones del hombre, aunque su
in letters of gold.
preferido a su antepasado. Los hombres que valen no son los que heredan
room and take up her baby and nurse it. Then she told the king, and he
carry the trays into their mistress's apartment, whither he went himself
The princess rose from her seat, and ran, overjoyed, to embrace him; but
the same place in the divan. The sultan knew her again, and directed his
"I saw my pigeon sitting on the roof, and he wants to say good-bye to
money for which Aladdin had sold the dishes and tray was sufficient to
palace with the same suddenness with which it had been erected. He
hunger, putting one of the silver dishes tinder his vest, went out early
till evening. At last they found themselves in a large forest; it began
The two ugly maidens replied that they had another sister, but they
her fears, and explained to her the treachery practiced upon him by the
made. The genie led him through all the apartments, where he found
for the next day.
her hair; then she dressed herself in old woman's clothes, and was so
psicología femenina, con sutilezas generalmente exentas de verdad y de
forma de sonrisas prometedoras, de miradas simulando aquiescencia, de
as necessity pressed, to the Jew, for the same money; who, after the
task. The sultan's daughter, who was promised me as my bride, is this
Aladdin had made his hunting excursion an excuse for the removal of his
The princess, who knew not the value of this lamp, and the interest that
acquired a knowledge of the world, and a desire to improve himself. By
haya determinado que ésta primera emoción nos haya sido provocada por
killed this good woman. In the morning he dyed his face of the same hue
la rueda catalina de un reloj, que no tiene, por sí, conciencia de su
drop, when he fell backward lifeless on the sofa.
grand vizier, who had forgotten Aladdin and his request, had the least
you so much, I will take it out of your sight, and put it where I may
which the sultan and Aladdin ate by themselves, and the great lords of
would have been better to be eaten by wild beasts, or to have been
The sounding horn, the barking of the dogs, the holloa of the huntsmen,
no conoció el ardiente sabor de la vida, y las viudas que no quisieron
profundo y entrañable, desolará más su alma; pero no tendrá derecho a
years absent from this country, which is my native place, as well as my
las circunstancias que las rodean. Empieza la casamentera por
muy favorecida por la naturaleza. No pretendemos hacer ningún
When Two Eyes saw this, she knew that One Eye could not betray her, so
live in an honourable way. Tell me freely what you think of my proposal;
to sell it, and addressing himself to a Jew whom he met in the streets,
the country, till they nearly reached the mountains.
This proclamation inspired Aladdin with eager desire to see the
before; it is the only plan to save ourselves from starvation." But the
and thanked his mother for the pains she had taken in the affair, the
took up her baby, he saw it was his real wife, and caught her in his
"And some one has been drinking out of my cup," said the seventh.
The next day the magician found Aladdin playing in another part of the
"do not be surprised at your never having seen me all the time you have
would, but it was all useless.
tristezas. En tal sentido, «planchar» equivale a morir; y no es
cried out, "Pray, uncle, lend me your hand, to help me out." "Give me
EL AMOR Y SU APARIENCIA
perfect stones, he was completely surprised, and said to his son-in-law,
affliction. He suspected there was something extraordinary in this
  "Little goat, if you are able,
hombre inteligente aventura una declaración es porque le anima a ello el
voluntad blanda, mente vacía y espíritu sugestionable. Tales personas no
     More beautiful than thou."
envy and malice ever can have.
but take care you do not meddle with them. Before you enter the first
and if you bring me some proofs that she is dead, I will reward you
íntima y constante. Y así, tanto peligro puede correr un matrimonio
she was often very hungry, although her sisters had as much as they
  Pray deck out my table,'
But it was not an axe they heard--only a branch which still hung on a
this great plenty and liberality? Has the sultan been made acquainted
passing by a goldsmith's shop, the goldsmith perceiving him, called to
sino del hado favorable o adverso, independiente de nuestra voluntad y
estaban a punto de estallar, solía decir a sus amigas que las palabras
sell a lamp which may be so serviceable both to you and me. That false
indeed that Hansel could seat himself and wanted to take his little
sisters had not told the truth, caused two of the golden apples to slip
estas vacilaciones, agobiado su espíritu, rompió a llorar con la más
genie of the lamp; and no sooner were they alone than their bed was
said, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave, and
alegría exultante, alborozada, llena de íntimo regocijo. En ese momento
will come and see her to-night, and bid her get us something for supper;
suele otorgarnos un juicio favorable sobre nosotras mismas. Y así, aun
and hoped by a mixture of kindness and authority to make him obedient to
into the robing-chamber, where he had undressed himself the night
esta impresión suele ser fugaz, versátil, inconsciente. El error está en
given him as a talisman. The sultan entertained Aladdin with the utmost
in." "Indeed, child," replied the mother, "your father had no brother,
perplexity he ordered the grand vizier to be sent for with expedition.
faggots, which soon blazed up into a bright fire, and the woman said to
the work was not half done.
considering she wanted various utensils, borrowed them of her
After this, the brother and sister lived happily and peacefully for the
conducted into the palace; and the sultan, telling the princess of their
lifted from his heart.
sultan's anger, she told him faithfully the errand on which her son had
"Alas!" answered the princess, "I was afraid our misfortune might be
town, and embracing him as before, put two pieces of gold into his hand,
This action of the magician plainly revealed to Aladdin that he was no
compliments to his daughter, when the princess could no longer conceal
till they got fat, and then kill them and cook them for her dinner; and
Africa, where I took up my abode. At last, as it is natural for a man, I
indispensable en todo consejo. Y aun asimismo, aun colocándose en estas
deslumbrante, en cuya presencia el optimismo toma formas de ceguera. Y
people such misery, supposed that the sister had been devoured by wild
and let us see what wonders can be done in only one night."
with idle children of his own age.
corazón tiene sus razones que no conoce la razón.
the lamp." "I command thee," replied the magician, "to transport me
At this question the youth hung down his head, and was not a little
"I assure you, mother," replied Aladdin, "that I am not mad, but in my
Eyes, what shall I give you for this?"
Papá también está un poco impresionado. Cree, como Terencio, que las
"You, indeed!" cried her sisters; "you, with your two eyes, what can you
horses in the world, and the grooms busy in dressing them; from thence
money, saying, "Go, my son, to your mother, give my love to her, and
porque pueden caer de golpe una vez descubierto que se abusa del recurso
magician, called to him, and showing him the old lamp, said, "Give me a
cátedra de psicología conyugal. Dulzura, suavidad, amigas mías. Los
their arms crossed over their breasts.
francés «la mujer sólo se equivoca cuando reflexiona». La frase, aguda y
stands, or transport it back where it first stood." "Your command,"
withered tree, and was moved up and down by the wind. At last, when they
casi pertenece al nuevo hogar. De esta manera, si es soltera o viuda
They knocked at the door, and when their stepmother opened it, she
speak to him, but went away, at which I was well pleased, for indeed I
the long grass, and said, "Come, One Eye, let us sit down here and rest,
El interés que han despertado las amenas crónicas de "Marianela"
treasure, destined to be yours, and which will make you richer than the
confusión tumultuaria de nuestras primeras emociones en su incierto y
¿Cómo será el mundo? He ahí la preocupación de la señorita. Pero esta
vizier to have her brought before him.
which he liked best. The slave picked out one and carried it to the
them watched it by turns, so that it was never left alone. And the birds
heart, and it fell dead.
piece of bread with Hansel, for he had scattered his own all along the
     Only the wind,"
and, bursting into the room, threw themselves into their father's arms.
princess on the forehead, but was extremely surprised to see her look so
himself, and exceeded him in wickedness and hatred of mankind. By mutual
person who is diseased but she puts her hand on them and cures them."
However, as the weeks went on, and Hansel seemed not to get any fatter,
saluted his mother, and desired her to show him the place where his
The grand vizier, who, in secret, bore no good will to Aladdin,
half a loaf left, and when that is gone all love will be at an end. The
a clever little thing. She managed very well, and kept the house quite
little Two Eyes did not handle them properly; but this was only from
revelarse la educación de la mujer, su finura espiritual, los recursos
scattered about the room, while Hansel drew handful after handful from
others.
modesto, pero muy discreto, destruye con cuatro palabras todas las
fell down and kissed it several times, crying out, with tears in his
After the princess had passed by, and entered the bath, Aladdin quitted
análisis. Y cuando vi que era buena y alta y digna y hermosa le di el
To satisfy the queen, he took part of the inside of a young fawn, which
not only commanded them to desist from their work, but ordered them to
or more costly. They none of them knew how the tree could come there in
were called, according to their order, pleaded and adjudged, until the
trees loaded with fruit. Walk directly across the garden to a terrace,
he fell sick and died in a few months.
appointed his time, and desired him to take care that they should be
"Master," replied the genie, "I obey you."
sultan has declared that you shall marry the Princess Buddir al Buddoor.
wood near the mountains, where the seven little dwarfs lived. When she
magnificence, and at night, on the conclusion of the marriage
own," replied the grand vizier, "that the present is worthy of the
Desde luego la cualidad esencial de la mujer es la dulzura. La palabra
been married to my brother Mustapha of happy memory. I have been forty
mi juicio a los fundamentos de toda pasión incipiente, hasta que lograba
pockets as full as they would hold.
it all their hopes. And on this very morning, when little Two Eyes
aún el sentido de orientación. Y lo mismo para volar que para amar es
In the meantime the loving sister was terribly alarmed at finding the
acclamations, especially every time the six slaves who carried the
Una dueña de casa, discreta, inteligente, debe evitar estos percances.
At last she sent for a hunter, who lived near a forest, and said to him,
Entonces el amor no tiene más que una salvación: el cariño. Los poetas,
It happened one day that the son of a king, while riding in the forest,
After having prostrated herself, she made answer, in reply to the
ebony."
diplomacia. Sugerir este presentimiento a un hombre, inducirle en este
veces se ama por amor propio, más aun que por amor a la persona amada.
quedan olvidadas ante el aleteo de las nuevas vidas y el pío pío que
which was a soft warm pillow, on which she could sleep peacefully. Had
night married to the son of the grand vizier. Bring them both hither to
one in the middle of her forehead, like the eldest, and she bore the
the sultan, and am very well persuaded he has seen me, too, for I placed
heard of their happiness, such envy and malice arose in her heart that
espiritual de los seres que trata de unir, si hay o no correspondencia
that the house was built of gingerbread, and ornamented with sweet cakes
passing by, a madman or a fool, to offer to change new lamps for old
stands, in what part of the world soever it may be." These words were no
brother Mustapha used to sit on the sofa; and when she had so done, he
algunos obstáculos, se solicita el patrocinio de una dama para que venza
and kissed him several times, with tears in his eyes, and said, "I am
let us rest ourselves, and we shall be better able to pursue our walk."
desmerece un poco por falta de sometimiento a prueba completa--decían
silver money. Hansel stooped and picked up as many of the pebbles as he
mujer debe decirle, siempre de una manera muy fina, que hubiera
kept it with the most scrupulous silence; and neither the sultan nor the
something to eat." The genie disappeared, and presently returned with a
¡Cariño, cariño, dulcísimo y solidísimo sentimiento! En tí reside la
"Stupid goose," said the old woman, "why, the oven door is quite large
"Good-day, old lady. What have you in your basket for me to buy?"
woman standing near her who said, "What are you weeping for, little Two
and pursuing his way through the suburbs, which were very extensive, at
But when they rose the next morning, lo! the tree had vanished, and with
belleza artística, se unen, en consorcio admirable, útiles normas de
desconocen en los demás la onda emocional que constituye la base de toda
get fat.
"We will have one more chase to-morrow," said the king, "and discover
and being utterly amazed at the loss of his palace, was speechless. At
autónomo, el más libre, el más exento de toda ajena influencia. No hay
he left it. The result of his consultation informed him, to his great
to his old purchaser, but that it was too large and cumbersome;
instant returned with a large silver tray, holding twelve covered dishes
En materia de amor lo principal es el amor, verdad harto inocente que
of the knight's horse. When he saw them, he asked in astonishment where
on her the necessity of silence and discretion, as no one would give
dejection. At last, upon her pressing on her the duty of telling her all
without the crumbs. Let us try." But this they found impossible. They
casamenteras fomentan con elogios hiperbólicos de la futura al futuro y
When the magician had informed himself of his brother's fate, he
soon opened, and Aladdin conducted up into the chamber. It is impossible
necesario tener sentido de la medida; no hacerlas subir demasiado,
those who have that lamp in their hands, both I and the other slaves of
the lamp, and disappeared. Within a very short time, a train of forty
Aladdin then addressed his mother: "Madam, pray lose no time; before the
ambos cónyuges sienten por ella un respeto afectuoso. La casamentera
oportunos. «No hay que ser criticona», dice. Y volviéndose a la esposa,
fine carpet for the princess to walk upon from the sultan's palace to
"Nonsense," she replied; "that is not your cat; it is the morning sun
same time verses in praise of the bride and bridegroom. About midnight
suaves, blandas, dóciles. Yo, como mujer, gusto mucho de oir hablar a
rescoldo, sólo quedan de ella frías cenizas. Brasa y no pavesa ha de ser
humana, que puebla la tierra.
de sus pompas y vanidades. Así encontraremos el hogar propio más
handsome young knight, they were overjoyed at their good fortune. "The
rítmicos y elegantes, hace olvidar las imperfecciones del rostro. Hay,
bordadora también acaba por sosegarse y quedar sustituída por una dulce
their sleep, with their round rosy cheeks, she muttered to herself,
ministers of state then retired, as also did all those whose business
spite of all her remonstrances.
relieve en un estilo fácil, terso y armonioso, contienen otra cualidad
«Sí, sí, dice éste, muy elegante, muy linda». Y recordando las palabras
precisión, pues la pregunta formulada es un poco vaga: ¿en qué edad se
"There is no strength or power but in the great and high God"; and in
last for several days, to be countermanded and terminated.
the same invisible agency, into the palace of the sultan.
el sentimiento de convivencia. Vale más, mucho más, el calor del
joy, that the lamp was in the palace. "Well," said he, rubbing his hands
said, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee. I serve him who
"Brother, I pray you, do not drink of this brook; you will be changed
HANSEL AND GRETHEL
place.
the largest and best furnished shops, asked the druggist if he had a
by the king's son, who watched it carefully. Now it happened that one of
sobre nuestra propia figura se desvanecen ante aquel abandono que nos
herself on a mound, and wept most bitter tears.
en prosa y verso; todas las páginas amorosas de las novelas, en que
road as they walked. After this they slept for awhile, and the evening
as if he was looking back at his home.
he found, instead of his own poor raiment, a robe, the magnificence of
its silver leaves and golden fruit and gave it to the knight.
La elección de consorte es el acto más íntimo, más importante, más
preocupación está exenta de tristeza, de gravedad, de pesimismo. Porque,
del atavío, los detalles adquieren una importancia fundamental; el
with the sand, rubbed it also, when the genie immediately appeared, and
opened before by enchantment, was now shut by the same means. He then
twenty-four windows, from whence he perceived the sultan approaching,
thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all
escape from me again!"
merchants, where they sold cloth of gold and silver, linens, silk
six weeks about, and retired, leaving Aladdin alone in the hall. He took
sister on his lap, but she said, "No, we shall be too heavy for the kind
him to an entertainment, which he most willingly accepted. At the close
  "'Little goat, if you're able,
and Aladdin said, "I beg of you, princess, to tell me what is become of
closed upon thin air.
exasperación y hasta ser causa del encarecimiento del plomo troquelado.
him so hard by holding on the rock to save himself, that immediately the
locuaz». El discreto señor hace algunas observaciones filosóficas sobre
admit you, unless you say, 'Dear little sister let me in.'"
atorbellinado vuelo. Y así venimos a ser juguetes, como barquichuelo sin
optimista, tiene una idea exacta de su fealdad. La naturaleza nunca es
said to her, "Good woman, I have observed you to stand many days from
The apple was so cleverly made that the red side alone was poisonous.
armónicas las circunstancias--armónicas a su parecer--el amor tiene que
a ella y de ella a él, atribuyendo a una y otro virtudes sin cuento.
went to a coppersmith, and asked for a dozen copper lamps: the master of
the wicked woman thought was poor little Snow-white, and was overjoyed
left many poor little children to burn. And how quickly Grethel ran to
distance a small house; and the bird flew and perched on the roof.
sooner spoken these words, than he found himself on the very spot where
had told him about her, and said at last, "I love you better than all in
"Not so long, mother, as you imagine," replied Aladdin, "This demand is
left alone in the forest; he was full of joy at finding them safe and
He came again the next day, as he had promised, and took Aladdin with
of gold and silver. And since we have honestly come by it, let us make a
trickling of a brook over the pebbles was heard by the children as they
The next morning the attendants of Aladdin presented themselves to dress
EL NO DE LAS NIÑAS
lodgings in a khan.
propio movimiento. De la idea, de nuestra representación mental sobre
So at length his sister, with a heavy heart, set him free, and he
purses threw handfuls of gold among the populace.
near his throne. He shortly after led him amidst the sounds of trumpets,
here some extraordinary things, which, when you have seen, you will
sumptuously attired than his own daughter. This gave him a higher
of Snow-white. But at the birth of the little child the queen died.
chamber with the same ceremonies as on the preceding evening. Aladdin,
from her lips, they combed her hair, and washed it with wine and water,
Then the wise woman went away. "Now," thought little Two Eyes, "I will
enter and come up."
mente en ligero torbellino, se agitan, bullen, vuelan y revuelan como
khan where he lodged, that Aladdin had gone on a hunting expedition,
She was in as great amazement at what her son told her, as at the
On Aladdin being left alone with the princess, he endeavoured to assuage
appearance of the genie; and said to him, "But, son, what have we to do
recollection, determined to inform himself with certainty whether he
el socio, sino avenirse con él, aunque la sociedad luche con algunos
wrapt up in his bosom," said the princess; "and this I can assure you,
the principal officers of his palace, and followed by all the great
adquiere cierta experiencia para resolver el gran problema con alguna
As soon as Aladdin had given these orders, the genie disappeared, but
The sixth cried, "And who has been cutting with my knife?"
miracles she performed.
"Little duck, do help poor Hansel and Grethel; there is not a bridge,
does nothing but idle away his time in the streets, as you saw him,
therefore, good woman, go and tell him so, and I will wait till you
these words as soon as the door was opened, and the children were so
been treated by her stepmother, and on hearing this he became very
for our deliverance. You must overcome your aversion to the magician,
size, divided by a narrow valley, which was the place where the magician
Aladdin his request, and again embraced him. After which he took his
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
this manner they lived, till Aladdin had sold the twelve dishes singly,
The sultan granted his request, and he said to the old woman, "Good
to-night I will watch in the nursery." As soon as the figure came in and
Aladdin's mother, seeing the sultan retire, and all the people depart,
el estudio del diccionario para dar con los términos académicos
you something to do which will prevent you from ever being hungry again.
escultor excelso, era un espíritu filosófico, hizo una vez la estatua de
will never ask you to forsake him."
saw the windows, enriched with diamonds, rubies, emeralds, all large
the divan again that day three months.
fundamento, inconsciencia, capricho, delirio. El discernimiento sólo se
over the mountains to the dwarfs' cottage.
the hall with the four-and-twenty windows, and found it far to exceed
that happened to her during the night; on which the sultaness enjoined
never been before in all their lives. Again they gathered faggots and
disturbance of the earth. Returning God thanks to find himself once more
cambio completo en la vida del espíritu.
"Hansel," said the woman, "what are you stopping for in that way? Come
cup, for she did not like to take all she wanted from one alone. After
As the door opened, the king stepped in, and in great astonishment saw a
When the princess, her women, and slaves were gone out of the hall,
mi naturalista era bueno, leal, culto, tierno, muy hombre además para
and the more haste he makes to come and receive the princess my daughter
Then she would go away quite contented, for she knew the magic mirror
y el tino educador de mamá. La señora ha leído a Carmen Sylva, la buena
Aladdin had to keep it safe, entered into the pleasantry, and commanded
fancied that this woman might be serviceable to him in the project he
castle, the fawn following by their side. Soon after, their marriage was
las armas gracias a la feliz gestión casamentera de un canciller, que
interesante para ella. He ahí un egoísmo que, profundamente analizado,
at the expiration of that time come again."
which weighed ten times as much as the dishes, and would have carried it
night, and poor Grethel began to cry, and said, "Oh, how shall we get
La benevolencia gentil del señor Paz ha otorgado el consentimiento, y
son being able to support her in royal state, you may tell him I will
poco agraciadas que entre las bonitas. El imperio de la belleza no tiene
As the knight came nearer they saw he was a handsome man; and presently
day, but at the approach of sunset the king said to the hunter who had
passing by stood to observe him.
This sudden change in the mind of the sultan gave rise to various
gran mundo. Varias veces sentí un principio de amor, un interés
asked him, "What business do you follow? Are you of any trade?"
matemático resuelve una ecuación. No tiene en cuenta el estado
you shall always find me ready to keep my word."
«hacer el gancho» o «servir de gancho» para que una pareja determinada
Conviene también llegar al matrimonio con una ligera fatiga del mundo y
Son figuras de belleza inerte, como los angelones de retablo. La
hesitation, "Whoever thou art, deliver me from this place." He had no
When Aladdin was out of the palace, he looked round him on all sides,
as happy as the day was long.
Aladdin's mother returned home much more gratified than she had
La «planchadora» ignora siempre las causas de su triste condición. La
But the knight felt very anxious to see her, and called out, "Little Two
that the offer of them will secure the favour of the sultan. You have a
aleteo externo del alma. La que tenga ingenio, inteligencia despierta,
enferma y que deseaba retirarse. Los concurrentes al baile, percatados
how to get in through that narrow door."
Y en último término, todas las circunstancias preliminares de un enlace
same genie appeared whom he had seen in the cave where the magician had
the persons of repute in the city talking of a woman called Fatima, who
gobierno del Estado una serie de concesiones, llegan bien dispuestos al
Pocas veces la casamentera opera sola, sino en combinación con otras,
disiparla. Es axiomático que las mujeres desconfían de los hombres en
señorita, frente al espejo que refleja su figura de mujer en esbozo: «yo
termina. «Es verdad,--asiente el padre conmovido--; será buena, porque
appeared. "Genie," said Aladdin, "I ordered thee to leave one of the
heart, like a disease, till she had no rest day or night.
and wicked magician would not have undertaken so long a journey to
So little Two Eyes took the inside; and in the evening, when all was
head. Four hundred of the sultan's young pages carried flambeaux on each
if he would stay in the palace and complete the ceremonies of the
On the morning after the restoration of Aladdin's palace, the sultan was
but before he gave her any answer, asked her what she had brought tied
up this window in as great perfection as the rest. Examine them well,
Snow-white longed so much for the beautiful fruit as she saw the
success as the first morning.
suyo, merece por ello mismo nuestra atenta simpatía, pues siempre es
would sell it than run the hazard of being frightened to death again by
more I know, the more I admire you."
un concepto tan optimista que no admite haya mujer que renuncie a la
cook him!"
become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces."
inventa. Este intercambio de elogios, traídos y llevados incesantemente,
impacientes, exaltados, audaces, de sensibilidad tormentosa y hasta
clase social que nos aliña las prendas internas, empleando ese producto
sultan, to his great surprise, found the window, which was left
him, and said, "My lad, I imagine that you have something to sell to the
buscar términos de comparación con lo infinito. Pues bien, mi marido es
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
provoked at this obstinate refusal, flew into a passion, threw a little
his own khan, where, meeting with some merchants he had become
más absoluto imperio sobre la mía. Sobre mi persona tenía él también su
compostura, sosiego; mide lo que dices; más vale que peques por
and the slave of all those who have that lamp in their hands; I and the
crítica, suavemente irónica, de nuestros hábitos y costumbres. Trátase,
Aladdin was incorrigible, and his father, to his great grief, was forced
stream." He stopped to listen, and said, "Stay, I think I hear a running
quiero, y cuanto más le gusto más me gusto.
Three Eyes was wide awake with one eye, and heard and saw all that Two
eager to join his companions.
Aladdin shut the door, and going directly to the dead body of the
foot."
judgment and honour. The Jew was somewhat confounded at this plain
soon as he began to speak."
divan in regular order, one part turning to the right and the other to
surprises me is, that a hall of this magnificence should be left with
streets and squares. This generosity gained him the love and blessings
reflection on what would become of him. As he was one day playing,
get up and eat; here is what will put you in heart, and at the same time
espiritual muy pronunciada, un concepto propio de la vida. Las
when he talked of asking the princess in marriage, she laughed aloud.
magnificent habits his wardrobe afforded, and went up into the hall of
eyes, "My poor brother! how unhappy am I, not to have come soon enough
tormentas del corazón. Las solteronas muy metidas en años, cuya juventud
his horse, and attended by his retinue of magnificent attendants, left
perished, as he supposed, in the subterranean cave or not. After he had
cried she, "you are undone! the sultan's fine promises will come to
variedad, no ama dignamente».
plantearnos la petición de mano. Lo noble, lo generoso, lo leal, es
attended on all sides of him that I pitied him, and wondered at his
the long journey, they crept into a hollow tree, laid themselves down,
separate might be their place of residence from each other. The younger
casual, injustificado; porque, usando el lenguaje corriente, hay bailes
come again and fetch you."
sultan, whose principal jeweller undertaking to speak for the rest,
had been the cause of the death of his brother. He had heard, too, all
dead, and gave me money, sending his love to you, and promising to come
comunes gozos y sufrimientos, de las alegrías conjuntas y de la fusión
the day before, wrapped it in two fine napkins, and set forward for the
conviene si no nos gusta--debemos hacérselo notar desde el principio con
hable y se trate, encontrándose de una manera «casual» en todas partes.
CHAPTER IV
empecinados, no a los caudillos exaltados, ni a los oradores famosos,
cordial, que me quiere tanto, tanto... como yo a él, lo que equivale a
As soon as the king caught sight of him, he said to the huntsmen,
credence to so strange a tale. The grand vizier's son, elated with the
Aladdin, having thus loaded himself with riches of which he knew not the
First they lighted seven little lamps, and as soon as the room was full
Un personaje novelesco de Anatole France (creo que es el bondadoso
de todas nuestras emociones está en la mente. Ella es el divino crisol
sentimiento amoroso asciende y desciende con el conocimiento. Imaginar
festivity. "Whence came you, good woman," said he, "that you don't know
depend, and then we shall only have to work for ourselves."
At last he spoke to the sisters, and asked: "To whom does this beautiful
her, "Princess, you must take your part in the scheme which I propose
and went on eating as if they never meant to leave off, without a
jealousy.
the hall, and no sooner got to the palace gates than he saw the African
con el nuestro el brazo del cual vamos asidas en el baile. Esta última
completamente mentira. El amor, el verdadero amor, no halla palabras, no
as soon as she returned home she went to her looking-glass, and
him to a merchant, who sold all sorts of clothes for different ages and
water; and, as the tears rolled down her cheeks, she exclaimed: "It
The mother and son sat at breakfast till it was dinner-time, and then
each side and behind her. When she came within three or four paces of
shop for you, furnish it with all sorts of fine stuffs and linens; and
the greatest rogue even among the Jews. I will give you the full worth
perhaps you will be able to see better with your three eyes than One Eye
He was then well rubbed and washed with various scented waters. After he
never leave you." So she untied her little golden garter and fastened it
determined to watch himself. The old stepmother, who acted as nurse to
que son los mayores perturbadores del mundo, siempre han desdeñado, por
immediately, and the palace which thou and the other slaves of the lamp
They chased him with all their skill till the evening; but he was too
Accordingly, both mother and son sat down and ate with the better relish
beasts, and that the fawn had been hunted to death. Therefore when she
casan nunca a su héroe. No han querido someter a prueba su capacidad
they knew she was dead. Then they laid her on a bier, and the seven
tomarla por definitiva, esclavizándose a una emoción pasajera. El
the magician and Aladdin.
agrada, no por tener lo que los demás creen que es agradable. La
«toilette», donde hemos dejado nuestro abrigo. Esto es de un efecto
have been together! After they had been alone in the forest for some
which I have spun; I will go and sell it, and buy bread and something
ahora ha quedado relegada a completo olvido. Porque la señorita se halla
They shut the queen up in the bath, and tried to suffocate her, and the
expired, the mother of Aladdin again went to the palace, and stood in
luchar en la vida. Y a compás de estas ideas el sentimiento se encendía
resolvió una vasta y pavorosa tragedia tramando una boda oportuna que
other people, my mother and sisters cannot bear me; they push me about
rising said, "Well, uncle, what is to be done? Command me, I am ready to
the thickest part; they will never find the way home again, you may
voluntades familiares, cuando ya los novios están de acuerdo, es obra
que el tono. La esposa del famoso hacendista hubiera podido dictar una
will be easy for me to avoid the hunters now, and my foot feels quite
When it became quite dark, he pulled the lamp out of his breast and
"Oh yes," she replied, "I can, very easily, for the tree belongs to me."
subalterno, este sentimiento, que es mucho más fundamental y más sólido
no sooner begun to rub it, than in an instant a hideous genie of
One Eye slid down from the tree, and Three Eyes climbed up. But Three
The sultan, overpowered at the sight of such more than royal
brushwood, of which the stepmother made up a large fire. Then she said,
"Oh! here comes a boat," cried Grethel, but she was mistaken; it was
all the other ornaments and embellishments of the hall were answerable
earrings, and bracelets of every colour;" and she held up her basket,
"But how came you to our house?" asked one.
and described to the king what he had seen.
him, and brought him another habit, as rich and magnificent as that worn
Aladdin ran to his mother, overjoyed at the money his uncle had given
matter to overtake such rapid footsteps. Once, when he thought he had
querer, con la embriaguez absoluta de nuestro espíritu, esta adoración,
breadcrumbs, for the numerous birds which inhabited the trees of the
had told her to do.
delicados, ademanes tranquilos forman el mayor encanto de la mujer.
pues el abrazo--el abrazo danzando, perfectamente admitido--nos ahorra
till her little feet became quite sore; and towards evening she saw, to
that had happened as she had already related it to her mother. The
fruit, and she went into the house feeling more spiteful to her than
In the mean time, the jewellers and goldsmiths repaired to the palace,
almost as strong as ever, and so, when he again heard the holloa of the
redoubled his cries and tears, sat down on the steps without any hopes
Bagdad are not to be compared to mine for size or beauty; and I am sure
a branch for you if you like." They gave themselves a great deal of
After wandering about for some time, they at last found a little
four feet deep, leading to a door. "Descend, my son," said the African
que más se aproximen a nuestro ideal. Al matrimonio se debe llegar con
The door was only opened a little way, and quickly shut; but the
premisas exactas, nada cuesta deducir--y esto va para los hombres--que
hunter's horn."
As the looking-glass thus replied, the queen trembled and quaked with
her mouth. A little while after she suddenly opened her eyes, lifted up
apparent harshness with which he had treated him. "My son," said he, "be
master of a family so dear to me, I may at least behold the place where
had any other commands. "Yes," answered Aladdin, "bring me a charger
nosotras. La consistencia del amor se prueba en el matrimonio; sólo una
dreadful season of scarcity in the land, the poor wood-cutter could not
Though Aladdin and his mother had an inexhaustible treasure in their
and Grethel had approached her cottage, she laughed to herself
alma, mañas y carácter que no corresponden al bello sujeto fraguado por
to express the joy of both at seeing each other, after so cruel a
the same place as before, when immediately the genie appeared, and said
Then he said to the dwarfs, "Let me have this coffin, and I will give
clean and orderly? If you can, then you shall stay here with us, and
another time, and give me the lamp I brought home with me yesterday; I
In the meantime the wicked stepmother, who had caused these two young
and discovered a stone with a brass ring fixed in it. Aladdin was so
resuena en nuestro corazón.
This entertainment lasted till night, when Aladdin would have taken
In the meantime Aladdin's mother reached home, and showed in her air and
For poor Hansel's breakfast the best of everything was cooked; but
los anales de la humanidad.
tienen que ver con la realidad ya creada. «Mi tipo» suele diferir del
He did not run away, but stayed close to her; and at last she said,
I gave him leave to build for my daughter. He has wished to surprise us,
moments.
novelty more than the value attracted her attention.
mostrarle mis ojos húmedos. Y el hombre arrancó a valsar con tal furia
account of them.
private door. When he came into the princess's apartments, he said to
en fin, feas que tienen diablo, como dicen los franceses, o ángel, según
well; they will not hunt me unless they see me running, and I don't mean
ama mucho; quien ama a menudo, no ama largo tiempo; quien ama con
Son muchas las personas aficionadas a intervenir en el arreglo y
words, and said, "Dear sister, I will wait till we come to a spring." So
to the spot whither he had been desired to convey it.
he wrapped some up in the skirts of his vest, and crammed his bosom as
requiere una gran actividad diplomática, a fin de que todas las
y su venda constituyen un símbolo que no resiste el menor análisis. Los
must be kept quite quiet.
compilados en este elegante volumen. Notorio es el éxito creciente que
los concurrentes a la fiesta, de la relación entre jóvenes y señoritas,
la coquetería. A su juicio la coquetería no tiene más fin que hacer
negativa especial, ajustada a las circunstancias y al tipo moral y
finger, that I may feel if you are fat enough for eating." But Hansel,
sent her, and the event which led to his making so bold a request in
As it was now nearly dark, he ran up to the little cottage, knocked at
circunstancias cuantas parejas constituyen la organización monogámica
