sultan, on hearing these strange tidings, consulted with the grand
touching it; and if you would take my advice, you would part also with
agreeable to the princess, and with the greater confidence since he has
voor zijn hok te loeren naar het houten hekpoortje, opspringend wanneer
oude volkswijk, in Sint-Andrieskwartier, waarvoor M. Boeykens hem eene
son," said he, "what a man you are to do such surprising things always
The words were scarcely spoken, when a beautiful little table stood
when your father has finished his work."
_De Zoutkeet_ nabij de Rozenstraat werd overgenomen door de jonggetrouwden,
they must not starve?"
HANSEL AND GRETHEL
for me?"
Aladdin, "build me a palace fit to receive the Princess Buddir al
munching away at the cakes of which it was made. Presently a voice came
After this she went back to Grethel, and, shaking her roughly till she
placed herself in front of the sultan as usual, the grand vizier
years old, without giving his mind to any useful pursuit, or the least
starved.
princess; but the change was no sooner made than the place rung with the
as many young and handsome white slaves, all dressed magnificently. On
snow, as rosy as the red blood, and with hair and eyes as black as
upon a shelf of the Prince Aladdin's robing room, and whoever owns it
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
reflection on what would become of him. As he was one day playing,
stilaan de verkoopwaarde, de speculatie, het opjagen, doorzag wat men
the door open and no one at home.
hen te beloonen voor de goede diensten sinds ongeveer zestien jaar:
wij mannen van uwen aard noodig hebben voor den gemeenteraad en voor den
The African magician, who was thus twice foiled in his endeavour to ruin
When Snow-white was a year old, the king took another wife. She was very
Hoe lang het geduurd heeft is lastig bij benadering te bepalen en
verzekering gegeven dat hij kandidaat zou gesteld worden.
that he would hear any more of the matter. He therefore took counsel
affection Aladdin had secured by his largesses and charities, that the
resounded through the forest, and were heard by the stag, who became
Een jaar later, het was het vierde jaar van hun huwelijk, werd de
one of Aladdin's, saying, "It is a talisman against all evil, so long as
rose, the black slaves uncovered the trays, and then all stood with
Then he related to her all that had happened, and what the little dwarfs
mother. He embraced him with all the demonstrations of joy, and when he
"This is wonderful," exclaimed the knight, "that the tree should belong
Met de dagelijksche krant eenige nieuwjaarkaartjes, wenschen van
The grand vizier, who, in secret, bore no good will to Aladdin,
that the grand vizier's son is to marry the Princess Buddir al Buddoor,
veld van bedrijvigheid. Eenigen tijd later werd hij de strooman voor een
everything that they could to make her miserable. It so happened that
palace, and a splendid carpet extending to it all the way from the
brother; and finding I had strength enough to undertake so long a
when the first thing he said to his mother was, that he wanted something
carried in a superb litter and attended by her women slaves, proceeded
vraagstukken en tijdroovende bezigheden. Madame kon alleen over de kuren
den familiekring die, in het salon, den wijn van den President proefde.
separation. After embracing and shedding tears of joy, they sat down,
bearing, elegant form, and wonderful likeness of each slave; their grave
"Look at this, then," said the woman; "you shall have it for your own if
   Snow-white over the mountain's brow
den overkant. Tot verre in den Polder kon men zien waar de lucht, achter
little bread from each plate, and drank a little drop of wine from each
conditions to the marriage that no one of the humble condition of
So they determined to find out the truth, and they arranged that when
after the huntsmen were gone, limp slowly home.
attended on all sides of him that I pitied him, and wondered at his
Nu gingen zij reeds jaren met hun drieën 's Zondags naar de kerk...
Buddir al Buddoor."
nothing of her sisters, till one day two poor women came to the castle,
dan stapte een flierefluiter, een heerken, zomersch uitgedost, uit het
Three Eyes was wide awake with one eye, and heard and saw all that Two
werd opgeofferd op het altaar der neringdoenden: het prettig kuieren en
ongevuld waren, en men naar het dorp moest door het vlagend weer voor
Though Aladdin and his mother had an inexhaustible treasure in their
  "'Little goat, when you're able,
heart was moved with compassion: "Run away, then, thou poor child," he
jonge mannen doen, die van den spanaard gesneden zijn.
least-frequented streets; and having no more occasion for his lamps or
she became impatient, and said she could not wait any longer. "Go,
's Zondags, in de buurt van het station, verkoos hij uitheemsche bieren.
de bibliotheek achter hem, hoorde het kreukelen van de krant. Dan vertelde
and feel sorry for having treated her so badly in their youthful days.
Then Hansel and Grethel raised quite a high heap of brushwood and
estate, he returned to the khan.
remained for some time lost in admiration. At last, when he had
brushwood, of which the stepmother made up a large fire. Then she said,
joy, that the lamp was in the palace. "Well," said he, rubbing his hands
It happened one day that the son of a king, while riding in the forest,
golden apples that she had plucked along with her.
lang met kennersoogen de kramen te hebben onderzocht, na loven en bieden
thought that he had not killed her was as if a stone-weight had been
--Marieken heeft weer leelijk haar kuren!
princess's face, which he determined to gratify, by placing himself
stepmother was dead.
Every morning she went out to gather dried roots, nuts, and berries, for
could tell him anything of it. On the third day he wandered into the
"Oh, I am so thirsty!" said the boy. "If we could only find a brook or a
three months were passed, his mother one evening, having no oil in the
their finger; both I and the other slaves of the ring."
"Follow that stag about, but don't hurt him." So they hunted him all
Zijn deel en was wat vrijgeviger tegenover den garçon. Deze stopte
voor het keukenraam uit te rekenen wat er nog aan hun spaarpot ontbrak.
appearance; her face was as fresh, and her cheeks and lips had their
nu 's Zondags ook eens de vijf zinnen bijeen rapen, en na het middagmaal
huntsmen, so when you come back in the evening, and knock, I shall not
lof te zingen van den buiten, alsof zij wederzijds iets van elkaar
others.
rejoicings.
depend, and then we shall only have to work for ourselves."
what it may, and no hurt shall come to you; speak boldly."
living, but had been poisoned; and by another observation, that he was
mounted that instant, thinking he could not make haste enough to the
seventh approached his bed, and saw Snow-white lying there fast asleep,
But every morning when they left her, the kind little dwarfs warned
elkaar gezeten in een leunstoel, en de koffietijd brak aan voor men het
"Stupid goose," said the old woman, "why, the oven door is quite large
ijverig ronselaar voor nieuwe partijgenooten. Menigmaal gebeurde het nu
zij het druk den hof te begieten. Zij pompten en sleurden het water in
winnen kon met inzetten, met "verdieren", met hoogen. Hij kwam in kennis
was desirous to see my native country again, and to embrace my dear
asked him, "What business do you follow? Are you of any trade?"
Geheimzinnig hmde hij aan tafel, liet soms zijn vork zakken om zich even
those he preferred, which he paid for.
apples. Are they not beautiful? let me make you a present of one."
the same place as before, when immediately the genie appeared, and said
heard of their happiness, such envy and malice arose in her heart that
     But at the palace, now,
CHAPTER V
the coffin-lid, raised herself and was again alive.
het aardig zoo hun alledaagschen gang te kunnen gaan. Zij konden
--Dat is het ja... dat is de waarheid, stemde Snepvangers in, vleide
dealing; and doubting whether Aladdin understood the material or the
winterseizoen hadden gevoeld in zijn ijselijke naarheid. Al lengden de
after bathing the wound, placed healing herbs on it, and said, "Lie down
the events of the night were not allowed to cast the least gloom on the
On Aladdin being left alone with the princess, he endeavoured to assuage
suffer from hunger and sorrow."
To her vexation the mirror replied:
foot."
Al dreigen zij zijn vrijheid
sparkling; her smile bewitching; her nose faultless; her mouth small;
sultan has declared that you shall marry the Princess Buddir al Buddoor.
adventure, and concluded by declaring, "I love the princess more than I
Dat kan niet blijven duren, dat mag niet? Wij willen het hekken aan den
more, "New lamps for old ones," but made the best of his way to his
De zomerconcerten in den dierentuin brachten de vrienden geregeld samen.
When she knocked at the door, Snow-white stretched her head out of the
lodgings in a khan.
  "Fair queen, thou art the fairest here,
naar bals gingen, uitstapjes deden, ja, die met een vrijer mochten gaan
opgemerkt of stilzwijgend geduld. Daarbij gaf de minnehandel geen
the day broke.
After the sultan had finished this magnificent entertainment, provided
vrouwen niet op boodschappen uit, er werd gekuischt en geboend en
inquired:
Bij fakkellicht werd het nieuwe eerelid door zijn fanfare een serenade
your uncle. Your worthy father was my own brother. I knew you at first
uurwerk. Bij het eerste schemeren van den dag was M. Snepvangers
aside for her, Three Eyes said to her mother, "I know where the proud
it was good silver, asked Aladdin at how much he valued it. Aladdin, who
and, bursting into the room, threw themselves into their father's arms.
himself so much with his fruit that he could not well get at it, refused
"Little Two Eyes," said the wise woman, "I will give you some good
keep within doors while the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, the sultan's
President was niet thuis, maar zijn vrouw, een pronte, zwaarlijvige en
cried; "I cannot harm thee."
without considering he is no longer a child; and if you do not make him
was er nog licht in de herbergen, daar zaten de dorpelingen te kaarten.
only a white duck which came swimming towards the children. "Perhaps she
his pockets. From this moment all his care and sorrow was at an end, and
the shop told him he had not so many by him, but if he would have
velden, en in de verte scheen het licht in de "Villa Yvonne". Hoe meer hij
the hall, and no sooner got to the palace gates than he saw the African
hair dressed; but no sooner had the comb touched the roots of her hair
schelvisch maar voor het avondmaal dienen. Wat zouden zij smullen. Na
The sultan's amazement and surprise were inexpressible, when he saw so
from the roof first, Grethel; and you can eat some of the barley-sugar
own shop, and taught him how to use his needle; but all his father's
the lamp, and disappeared. Within a very short time, a train of forty
for some minutes. At last she went into the ballroom, but the slippers
to know, went up to him, and taking him aside from his comrades, said,
slaves of the lamp, immediately transported him and the palace, entire,
been married to my brother Mustapha of happy memory. I have been forty
command transported the couch with the bride and bridegroom on it, by
of gold and silver. And since we have honestly come by it, let us make a
beautiful goods to sell."
passing by, a madman or a fool, to offer to change new lamps for old
and kissed him several times, with tears in his eyes, and said, "I am
en er zetelen er anderen dan Snepvangers.... De neringdoenden willen mij
te trouwen, en zij kennen daarbij een geschikt meisje en een kranige
home, and went on alone so quickly that he arrived there before the
In the mean time, the jewellers and goldsmiths repaired to the palace,
daughter, went to the bath and returned.
waar, zitten en uitrusten.
       *       *       *       *       *
perished with cold, by standing in his thin under-garment all night, no
  "Queen, thou art not the fairest now;
judged rightly that he would not sit again that day, and resolved to go
the next stream I must drink, say what you will, my thirst is so great."
new lamp for this."
het pas wanneer de nieuwheid reeds voorbij was, smaakte nog eens zoo
neighbours. She spent the whole day in preparing the supper; and at
carried him to his own home.
Zoo kwam M. Snepvangers op het gedacht ook een hond te houden. En vermits
her own food, and sweet fresh grass for the fawn, which he ate out of
witch, who had her house built of gingerbread on purpose to entrap
same genie appeared whom he had seen in the cave where the magician had
to examine them with her at his leisure. The fourscore slaves were
each could furnish, they returned, and presented themselves before the
beautiful animal, and started off in chase of him; but it was no easy
dear children, who has brought you here? Come in, and stay with me for a
one of its windows incomplete and unfinished." "Sire," answered Aladdin,
en den balsemgeur der dennebosschen. Twee nesten zwaluwen hadden hun
came by chance upon the dwarfs' house and asked for a night's lodging.
to give you one last embrace." Aladdin's mother desired him to sit down
faggots, which soon blazed up into a bright fire, and the woman said to
de menschen om te gaan, luisterde geduldig en met belangstelling naar de
induced the sultan to send a detachment of his guard, and to have
--Zouden wij niet eens in den winkel gaan zien? stelde Madame Snepvangers
the queen herself. So the proud woman went to her magic looking-glass,
"Everything that is pretty," she replied; "laces, and pearls, and
and received him at the foot of the great staircase, helping him to
paar fransche romancen. Plots gaf hij zijn Vlaamsch gezindheid lucht:
to whom he had appeared before in the cave?" "Mother," answered Aladdin,
Maar de Zondag werd, naar ouden trant, bijzonder gevierd. De familie trok
zeggen? Zoo'n avontuur moest aan hem overkomen, aan een deftig getrouwd
en fier van de vruchten, van de zelfgewonnen vruchten, terwijl zij
and was carried away when Two Eyes had eaten enough; and the cunning
this present is much below the notice of Princess Buddir al Buddoor; but
man! do you not know it? Follow me, and I will show you." The sultan
no occasion for my assistance," answered the magician; "if I help you,
house, went out to buy some, and found a general rejoicing--the houses
  "Waar kan men beter zijn,
Eyes, why do you weep?"
zij gewaar dat er geen olie meer in de lamp is. De stemming was weg, en
uit. In de keuken liet hij zich zuchtend op een stoel neerzakken, den
placed herself always directly before the sultan, but with as little
shining on the chimney-pot."
Then they lay quite still till their parents were asleep.
and his pretended nephew acquainted.
and asked:
ask him to exchange cups with you, which he, gratified at the honour you
bring me his answer."
nor have you an uncle."
was.
with the sand, rubbed it also, when the genie immediately appeared, and
wandered about the city, exciting the wonder and compassion of the
Aladdin was just ready to go, when the magician knocked at the door, and
left alone in the forest; he was full of joy at finding them safe and
seven little dwarfs, who dug and searched in the mountains for minerals.
In de pauze gaf Antoine zijn muziekbeschouwingen ten beste, de vaders
tortoise-shell comb which she had poisoned.
now declined to have any communication with him. For three days he
een winkeldochter op de zaak. M. Snepvangers was deftig gekleed, droeg
aardig meisje gevonden. Het gezellig gesprek werd in den winkel gevoerd.
raken. Madame genoot van haar eetkamer en het terras er voor, waar
given him as a talisman. The sultan entertained Aladdin with the utmost
--Ja Papa, steunde Marieken.
gekleed, afscheid van de nieuwe eigenaars der _Zoutkeet_, van de twee
schelvisch was door den garçon ergens weggelegd, als om de zorgloosheid
burgerij."
badkuip gekozen, niet eens bekeken. Volgens afspraak zou men den volgenden
last they caught sight of their father's house. Then they began to run,
bevestigd was, vermeldende met onzekere, zwarte letters: _Villa te huur
agreement they communicated with each other once a year, however widely
Aladdin's mother prostrated herself a second time before the sultan's
ones.
struiken.
The two ugly maidens replied that they had another sister, but they
gold, she got their supper ready, and they were very happy together.
onderhoudende en opwekkende critiek konden voeren, en Mijnheer alleen zijn
koesterde de hoop hier dik te worden en fleurig, want zij was bleek en
"But I am all right," said the farmer's wife. "Stay, I will show you my
bath; and these officers whom you see are to assist at the cavalcade to
When the magician had informed himself of his brother's fate, he
Aladdin could possibly fulfill. In accordance with this suggestion of
De lente was in aantocht. Overal begon het groen uit zijn zwachtels los
try if what she says is true, for I am very hungry," so she said:
out of the wood?"
different man from what he was before. His skin was clear as that of a
to Aladdin's palace. As he approached, he began crying, "Who will
magnificence, and at night, on the conclusion of the marriage
your answer immediately," said she; and then added, laughing, "I believe
It is vanished; but I had no concern in its removal. I beg you to give
Two Eyes had eaten anything in the field; for she said to excuse
spitskar om zich te laten zien.
vroeger regelmatig bezocht. Hoe prettig zich weer thuis te voelen in de
No sooner, however, was she reduced to ashes than the charm which held
that had happened as she had already related it to her mother. The
rough hand, dragged him out of bed, and led him to a little cage which
stood a small table, covered with a snow-white table-cloth, ready for
wonderful tree belongs to us now," they said; "even if we cannot break
losgelaten leute, die de ouderen lang vergeten strophen in het geheugen
four-and-twenty windows of this hall imperfect, and thou hast executed
As the knight came nearer they saw he was a handsome man; and presently
me be left alone, while I endeavour to transport you back to China as
over the enchanted brother, and the fawn wept also.
perhaps, if it were gone, I might not be so some moments hence;
pointed out the way. They walked all the night through, and did not
which weighed ten times as much as the dishes, and would have carried it
before.
witte en roode, beter en meer dan op de beste verkooping. Juist toen zij
Grethel had nothing for herself but a crab's claw. Every morning the old
something to eat." The genie disappeared, and presently returned with a
thanks, who thus addressed him: "As you are soon to be a merchant, it is
procure myself the honour of this alliance."
celebrated with great splendour, and the fawn was taken the greatest
"Sint-Jacob", "De drij Kauwkens", verder in de oude stad "De Klok",
"the genie you saw is not the one who appeared to me. If you remember,
"Three Eyes," said the mother, "climb up, and try what you can do;
day, the genie appeared at the appointed hour, bringing back the
had hij dagen lang de noodzakelijkheid doen uitschijnen van een barometer
verliezen, rekenden uit hoeveel een doghond verorberen kan, stelden
Aladdin descended the steps, and, opening the door, found the three
vanish so soon, and not leave the least remains behind. In his
without the crumbs. Let us try." But this they found impossible. They
himself, and exceeded him in wickedness and hatred of mankind. By mutual
"Indeed, uncle," answered Aladdin, "I cannot now, but I will as soon as
Hij ging M. Boeykens spreken, zou hem alles biechten en die zou wel raad
weer op wandeling, kwam thuis om te avondmalen, keerde opnieuw om te
Telkens zwenkten zij even door de lichtstreep, schoven dan weer in de
Then she went into a lonely forbidden chamber where no one was allowed
Poor Snow-white could not refuse such a present, so she opened the door
rage. "Snow-white shall die," cried she, "if it costs me my own life!"
soon after retired.
"But remember," she said, "I must lock the cottage door against those
he stopped her, and said, "Princess, retire to your apartment; and let
   Over the mountains still is she,
zwaartillend onderzocht. De beste koeikens zoekt men op stal, maar toch
--Neen, goddank, maar ik woon buiten...
to rain, and the little sister said, "See, brother, heaven and our
He waits for you with impatience."
  "Fair queen, at home there is none like thee,
here some extraordinary things, which, when you have seen, you will
the word was no sooner given that the African magician was fallen
succeed; and since his death, notwithstanding all I can say to him, he
The sounding horn, the barking of the dogs, the holloa of the huntsmen,
I am up." The African magician was determined that he would have the
forest had picked them all up.
--Hij nam den verdierenpikker in zijn vertrouwen, die de zaak niet te
The princess, who knew not the value of this lamp, and the interest that
Zij zullen hem niet temmen,
"And I shall die of grief," he said, "if I remain here listening to the
take care of us." Then he laid himself down again in bed, and slept till
Accordingly, both mother and son sat down and ate with the better relish
They chased him with all their skill till the evening; but he was too
had called them thither.
spel beviel hen zeer. Bij het nagerecht bestelden zij champagne, sigaren
Kunnen op trekken. Hij had in het dorp kennissen gevonden om kaart te
"Hunter, I want to get rid of that child. Take her out into the wood,
from her lips, they combed her hair, and washed it with wine and water,
Now this wicked queen had some knowledge of witchcraft, and she knew how
Then said the fifth, "Some one has used my fork."
schoon als men denkt... Voor mij is het niks... ik ben niet bang... Ik
enjoy her dinner! and when she had finished, she said, as the wise woman
and say her prayers, and then lay her delicate head on the fawn's back,
dressed with foliage, silks, and carpeting, and every one striving to
"Child, come here; I will show you how to lace your stays properly."
on her the necessity of silence and discretion, as no one would give
--Die over den hond kan, kan over den staart... Wij zullen eens naar
the ring, and not have anything to do with genies, who, as our prophet
the ten purses Aladdin took four, which he gave to his mother, telling
footsteps, she rushed away as quickly as she could.
forehead. The second had two eyes, like other people, and she was called
necessary, both for food and ornament.
gelukkige hand!
landhuisje. Eindelijk doopte Marieken den rooden blok _Villa Yvonne_, dat
think you could be our little housekeeper, to make the beds, cook the
divan in regular order, one part turning to the right and the other to
and the slave of all those who have that lamp in their hands; I and the
this present as the dowry demanded for the princess, that he may judge
te zetten. Het leven was nieuw en schoon, zij gingen vooruit in de wereld
killed this good woman. In the morning he dyed his face of the same hue
lamp before he would help him up; and Aladdin, who had encumbered
At last the mother was impatient, and climbed up herself, but with no
--Ik zal mijn best doen, beloofde Snepvangers, terwijl hij in de
son, what is past cannot be recalled. By showing you the value of this
Met danig stoken kreeg men het in _Villa Yvonne_ ongeveer warm genoeg. Het
they tried in every way to restore her; they tried to extract the poison
had er niet kunnen over zwijgen, en Craen was niet makkelijk. Zij kende
genie thence led him to the stables, where were some of the finest
those who have that lamp in their hands, both I and the other slaves of
Another female slave hearing this, said, "Now you speak of lamps, I know
his hiding-place, and went home. His mother perceived him to be more
men pas goed het omliggende land bewonderen. De meid was in haar
fruit entirely white, and some clear and transparent as crystal; some
have built in this city, with all the people in it, to Africa." The
haveloos, slonsig meisken op moeders pantoffels komen aansloffen.
praatjes, had geen eigen meeningen over de menschen en gebeurtenissen,
that his plate would fetch by weight sixty pieces of gold, which he
quarrel over it, for you will get nothing more."
took up her baby, he saw it was his real wife, and caught her in his
been but two days arrived from Africa, his native country.
The wicked queen when she returned home, after, as she thought, killing
Come, let us go home!"
Doelloos liep hij over de De Keyserlei, dacht aan het onthaal dat hem
same time verses in praise of the bride and bridegroom. About midnight
had conceived, he made more minute inquiries, and requested to be
long tract of country without delay, he arrived after incredible
sun shining on the chimney-top."
"And some one has been drinking out of my cup," said the seventh.
stamlokalen bezocht.
"Little duck, do help poor Hansel and Grethel; there is not a bridge,
were in bed. "The times are as bad as ever," she said; "we have just
De drogist zong nu, begeleid door Marieken, met lichte tenorstem een
the long journey, they crept into a hollow tree, laid themselves down,
droge! Zij konden gemakkelijk concurreeren tegen de winkels der buurt,
is cutting wood in the forest; when we have finished our work, we will
of black ebony, and as she worked, and the snow glittered, she pricked
    "Whoever drinks of me, a tiger soon will be."
terugkeerend van het station tot waar hij bezoekers vergezeld had,
till he gets fat; and then I shall cook him and eat him!" When Grethel
sterfhuizen en op de graanmarkt, bij de uitdragers, spiegels, lusters,
en 't staat allemaal in de gazet _De Noodkreet_. Ik heb seffens aan
de jagende autos en bedekte alles met grijzen schimmel.
getroost. De korte vacanties brachten nooit de groote toenadering. Weldra
Aladdin thanked him for his fair dealing, and never after went to any
would have been better to be eaten by wild beasts, or to have been
verkoopingen, leerde er de waarde kennen van huizen en gronden, begreep
--Trein gemankeerd?
will look, when we have arranged them according to their different
fell down and kissed it several times, crying out, with tears in his
perfect stones, he was completely surprised, and said to his son-in-law,
conveyed in her litter, and accompanied also by Aladdin's mother,
genie made no reply, but with the assistance of the other genies, the
patience till the next day, he would have them ready. The magician
locked her up, but she did not go far, as she wanted to watch over her
Persia, Arabia, Syria, and Egypt, and afterward crossed over into
boil something good for your brother, who is shut up in a cage outside
through the second into the third without stopping. Above all things,
opinion of Aladdin, who took such care of his mother, and made her share
buitenleven. Vele avonden brachten zij zoek om een naam te vinden voor het
   The bride will prove a thousand times
perished, as he supposed, in the subterranean cave or not. After he had
twenty-four windows, from whence he perceived the sultan approaching,
walk at an equal distance from each other, the lustre of their jewelled
gaf het leven een rozig-leutig aanschijn.
him, so that he can hardly stir, make all the noise they can in derision
horses in the world, and the grooms busy in dressing them; from thence
a noble gentleman walk in with a gold crown on his head.
state went in to take their seats in the divan, where the sultan always
brother in a son, who has his most remarkable features."
echtkoets stapte.
people such misery, supposed that the sister had been devoured by wild
Antoine, dat is de familie Snepvangers, waarover wij gesproken hebben.
tempting, of a pale green with rosy cheeks, so that it made everyone's
But Hansel did not look back any more; he only dropped pieces of bread
his wealth and honours. Shortly after her departure, Aladdin, mounting
familie, pluisde onderwijl aan zijn vlasblond geitenbaardje.
saluted his mother, and desired her to show him the place where his
praised for all things! It is a comfort for me to find, as it were, my
similar testimonies of her extreme pleasure. After a short interval,
looking out of his window, and mourning over the fate of his daughter,
"Mijne heeren, zei hij, het glas beeft mij in de hand bij zooveel
attended in person.
to poison a comb, so that whoever used it would fall dead. This the
silver money. Hansel stooped and picked up as many of the pebbles as he
and women, to form a retinue for the princess and myself. Go and execute
verhelpen dat de tijd hier zoo vlug voorbij ging? God, nu moest de
bood zeer aardige uitzichten, ook voor de dames. Slechts een ding
sisters had not told the truth, caused two of the golden apples to slip
As soon as Aladdin had given these orders, the genie disappeared, but
weer met den trein te gaan. 's Avonds, wanneer de zon onder was, hadden
  "Queen, thou art the fairest here,
much haste, that the Jew, not content with the exorbitancy of his
beweging der menschen! Ja, de stad was toch wel aantrekkelijk, daar kan
disguised that no one could have recognised her.
black slaves, led by the same number of white slaves, appeared opposite
wel zijn rustig gemoed in opstand, doch telkens dacht hij aan den
tray, the same number of covered dishes as before, set them down, and
without that you had never seen me again; and though I am alive now,
bezig achter het tuinhek een paal op te richten waaraan een bordje
shut the iron door and fastened the bolt.
Snow-white to be careful. While the maiden was alone they knew she was
vieren! Te laat beklaagd oude zot! Wat nu aangevangen?
for the next day.
divan, a spacious hall, the entrance into which was very magnificent.
left many poor little children to burn. And how quickly Grethel ran to
is true sultans ought to abide by their word, and I am ready to keep
I will have it completed with the utmost expedition." The sultan granted
myself and you, much less the children? what shall we do with them, for
notariskarweikens gebruiken.
the lamp, and of the genie who had promised to obey him; and without
His wife would listen to nothing he said, but continued to reproach him,
wrapt up in his bosom," said the princess; "and this I can assure you,
brother lived so long, and ended his days."
in the twinkling of an eye! there is not your fellow in the world; the
Aladdin did not confine himself in his palace, but went with much state,
   But Snow-white will be
klonk romantisch en chic. Begin Maart was de woning klaar, en alleen in
should surpass her in beauty. She possessed a wonderful mirror, and when
een zwart spitsken, het salonneken aan de straat werd slechts voor
Verhit danste men hand aan hand rond de tafel en keelde
baby, and one of them pretended to be a nurse, and at last got the
her, those were to supply her with necessaries; the other six he left in
day, but at the approach of sunset the king said to the hunter who had
The two children, who also were too hungry to sleep, heard all that
jealousy.
he should be much obliged to him for his kindness. "Well then," said the
conditions on which he consented to the marriage. "The sultan expects
success as the first morning.
not whether the princess may have observed it, but there is an old one
window, and said, "I dare not let you in; the seven dwarfs have
Tegen zooveel beeldsprakige ophemeling voelde hij zich niet bestand, het
     Only the wind,"
going to run after him, to endeavour to get some change out of the piece
it was lifted up, the other when it was set down, and both in a very
cave, had made his escape, and was living in royal splendour, by the aid
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
resorted to a long course of magic ceremonies, and had formed a
zuigen. De tuin bood geen plekje schaduw, en alleen aan den straatweg
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
Two Eyes kept on singing, she closed her one eye and fell fast asleep.
afzondering. Een beetje bekwemd keek hij naar het oud grijs heerken, naar
asked:
in een hotelzaal. Het was Goede Vrijdag! Zij prezen het lekker vischdiner,
aanhooren in haar kruidenierszaak. Marieken had ook wel eens vage
Antoine en Marieken liepen voorop, soms wel gearmd, gevolgd door de
necklace she wore round her waist, and her stick, went straight to the
die daar kwam aangeslenterd?
never say anything more about them.
He was then well rubbed and washed with various scented waters. After he
wachten in den nacht? Zij zouden natuurlijk niet kunnen slapen, het huis
  Come and clear away my table."
attended by her women slaves, in the same order as on the preceding day.
will not cheat you."
me."
to return to Africa, but avoided the town, lest any person who had seen
When Aladdin found himself so handsomely equipped, he returned his uncle
slaapkamer.
and then lifting it up above his head, signifying his willingness to
restored to life. But when the dwarfs heard what had happened, they
He led the sultan into the princess's apartment. The happy father
and rest, and I will sing to you, Three Eyes."
"This tree belongs to us," said the two sisters, "and we will break off
Shortly after her arrival at the princess's apartment, the sultan
bijwoonden of 's Zondags in den hof wandelden om de beesten te bekijken.
However, as the weeks went on, and Hansel seemed not to get any fatter,
the fawn heard the holloa, he could not rest in peace, but begged his
--Ik heb onzen Antoine nog nooit zoo gezien, fluisterde Madame Craen.
according to custom, in the street, with his evil associates, a stranger
never beheld jewels so rich and beautiful before." The vizier was
presented the precious stones which he had brought back. The sultan
hast hitherto obeyed me, but now I am about to impose on thee a harder
gardens, into which anybody might enter. At every building he came to,
short a time, he embraced Aladdin and kissed him between his eyes. "My
--Maar wij blijven hier niet langer... wij hebben duizend angsten
She and her ugly daughter came to the castle when the queen had a little
ons beschermen door goede wetten.... Recht door zee, willen wij; de
present darkness to a speedy death. In this great emergency he said,
motion, as if she were dead. They lifted her up, and saw in a moment
beiden geluk gehad in het leven, zagen alles rooskleurig in, deden
Ossenmarkt, in het broksken hemel, schitterden nu sterren als
offered to pay down immediately.
as happy as the day was long.
sheet of water.
rusten en stil zitten in de halfdonkere kamers, waar de rolluiken waren
brandde er een gaslamp meer. Aan den overkant, bij den loodgieter,
form a nice shelter for them both. So she led the fawn in, and then went
as I expected," and then she went away quickly.
The magician never doubted but this was the lamp he wanted. There could
become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces."
pot with water, and hang it over the fire to boil. As soon as this was
louter voorzorg, haast altijd zijn zijden regenscherm mee. Elken dag had
and let us see what wonders can be done in only one night."
a shop as I mentioned."
terribly frightened. But they spoke kindly to her, till she lost all
angry, and had the witch and her daughter brought to justice. They were
--Dat heeft Marieken nooit gedaan, weerde zich Madame Snepvangers.
and I will sing to you."
Marieken kreeg zin in duiven en Madame in kippen. Duiven waren zoo'n
When the stone was pulled up, there appeared a staircase about three or
their faces, she recognised her two sisters, who had become so poor that
struck with its beauty; but when he entered it, came into the hall, and
wanneer zij dacht aan getrouwde vriendinnen. Dan was zij onhandelbaar,
stream." He stopped to listen, and said, "Stay, I think I hear a running
a mere trifle, and will prove no bar to my marriage with the princess. I
Again the brother denied himself and promised to wait; but he said, "At
trees loaded with fruit. Walk directly across the garden to a terrace,
over de deur, en die was zelfs lid van den Gemeenteraad.
of the beds, but she found it difficult to choose one to suit her. One
they would be taken care of.
other person.
Snepvangers kon het niet langer volhouden. Vandaag moest hij de stad zien,
Aladdin's palaces, made it as light as day. In this order the princess,
verdierenpikker, 't is een schoone propaganda-avond. Toen in de verte de
his uncle to tell him he was ready to give him the lamp; but in vain,
truthful, and that the hunter must have deceived her, and that
house. Even the little dogs under the table fare better than we do, for
A sudden thought gave Grethel unusual strength; she started forward,
bestelden een nieuw glas en vonden het lekker zitten onder de boomen. Na
my commands punctually; now I would have thee make it like the rest."
"With your leave, mother," replied Aladdin, "I shall now take care how I
maintain himself and his family, which consisted only of his wife and a
ten pieces of gold, with which Aladdin was very well satisfied.
the oven hot, and the dough is already kneaded." Then she dragged poor
fruit, and during this short repast he exhorted his nephew to leave off
--Wij moeten den President onze klandisie gunnen, oordeelde Madame.
ten minste wandelen, door de drukke straten, naar de winkels kijken.
bridegroom in their own chamber, the sultan came to the door to offer
therefore, good woman, go and tell him so, and I will wait till you
het alles voor den eersten keer in hun leven te mogen aanschouwen. Regen
Aladdin's mother took the china dish, in which they had put the jewels
intimated his suspicion that the palace was built by magic, and that
--Schelvisch, dweepte Marieken.
the day before. Nor did he forget to take with him the Wonderful Lamp,
up in the napkin. She took the china dish which she had set down at the
it hurried me." "Sire," replied Aladdin, "I have not the least reason to
als de leden er dan erg aan houden, dan zal ik mij nog eens bedenken...
had a greater inclination to that business than to any other, and that
in het roetbedrijf van zijn vader. Wie het voorstel opperde van buiten te
She was glad to sit down, for the walk and the heat of the sun had
straks de matten-leurders van Putte, later nog het werkvolk, zonder den
he cried.
have, and could easily discover when human beings were near. As Hansel
this time." When she came home, full of these thoughts, she told Aladdin
before Aladdin's mother recovered from her swoon.
this dear brother only kept his own proper form, how happy they would
--Ja!
than this Aladdin, who is an entire stranger to your majesty."
could stuff in his little coat pockets. He then went back to Grethel and
the door, and cried, "Dear little sister, let me in." The door was
in letters of gold.
road as they walked. After this they slept for awhile, and the evening
rentenierken, dat veel menschen kende en groette. Doch zij geleek veel aan
geplukt. Moe gestaard op de kale velden, naar den neveligen, triestigen
not breathe, and presently fell down at her feet as if dead.
But when they went out of the thicket into the moonlight they found no
M. Snepvangers oogde den knecht na, die haastig voortliep in den nacht. Nu
mother, "you have no uncle by your father's side or mine." "I am just
answered the genie, "is not wholly in my power; I am only the slave of
de velden, rukte aan deuren en vensters. De regen zong door dagen en
had a lattice-door, and shut him in; he might scream as much as he
aan Snepvangers zijn uitstapjes naar Antwerpen. Het inroepen van M.
and admire his palace, and said, "You ought to know where your palace
were to find themselves in a part of the wood which they remembered
window to be stopped. Aladdin met him at the gate, and without giving
manner?" "I am your uncle," answered the magician; "I supply the place
hesitation, "Whoever thou art, deliver me from this place." He had no
one will come to help you."
When the magician had made choice of a place, and sat down, he began to
choice that the marriage was soon after celebrated with great pomp and
sharp stones and through the thorns, and though the wild beasts sprang
or inns where the merchants and travellers lodged, and afterward to the
home; but it was no use, they only went still deeper into the wood, and
in the same place, but he declined. "No," said he, "I shall not do that;
en wind kon hun stemming niet bederven, er viel nog zooveel te veranderen
De vriendschap der meiden uit heerenhuizen te onderhouden met kleine
admit you, unless you say, 'Dear little sister let me in.'"
  "Wat was zij schoon, de blonde maagd,
conducted into the palace; and the sultan, telling the princess of their
rondwandelende meisjes over den kiezelgrond.
"I can let in this respectable old woman," thought Snow-white; "she will
vermits zij in de buurt bleven en de oude meesters goede klanten konden
would sell it than run the hazard of being frightened to death again by
began to weep and cry so bitterly that two little rivulets flowed from
profit, was vexed he had not penetrated into his ignorance, and was
he dismounted, he retired to his own chamber, took the lamp, and
een vrouw hebben, ook voor d'affaire. Maar hij zegt geen tijd te hebben
and this you saw, called himself the slave of the lamp you had in your
proper you should frequent these shops, and be acquainted with them." He
strijdperk zou treden. De loodgieter had hem nu zelf de stellige
of the people, who wished him all happiness and prosperity. As soon as
good success of which was of so great importance to his peace, that he
indeed that Hansel could seat himself and wanted to take his little
maliciously, and said, with a sneer: "I have them now; they shall not
hadden genoeg van de stijve deftigheid, wenschten maar liefst te gaan
weifelend lichtje op zijn langen stok, en telkens als hij stil stond
replied Aladdin, "I am not strong enough; you must help me." "You have
voelen voor de prijzen van bouwgronden, liep heele voormiddagen langs de
Alles stond thans in lentegroen, de lucht kreeg nu een lekkere mildheid,
told is Africa."
him. "Mother," said he, "have I an uncle?" "No, child," replied his
sight, you are so like him." Then he gave Aladdin a handful of small
van het janhagel, dat toch geen fijnen smaak heeft. Snepvangers hielp
verwachten.... Saluut... tot weerziens.
The princess was a noted beauty: her eyes were large, lively, and
Madame Craen noemde prijzen van badkuipen, waterketels, lavabos, gemakken,
  Pray deck out my table,'
Aladdin, who had seen such a phantom in the cavern, snatched the lamp
Madame's geboortedorp in den Polder: eenige maanden later huurden zij een
    "Who dares to drink of me,
that she might lace her stays. But no sooner was the lace in the holes
the lamp." "I command thee," replied the magician, "to transport me
Then the mirror would reply:
morning at daybreak the genie presented himself, and, having obtained
than the poison took effect, and the maiden fell to the ground lifeless.
Weldra vertrouwde M. Boeykens hem om eigendommen op te jagen in den
lords, who sat in council, on his right and left hand. Several causes
had it, but that it was very dear; upon which Aladdin, penetrating his
As soon as it was quiet, Hansel got up, put on his little coat,
ruischende zijde stapte links van haar dikken echtgenoot naar de kerk. Op
seen the bride, so she determined to go. But what was her astonishment
But the poor little motherless child, when she found herself alone in
attendants on foot, to inquire why he had ordered the completion of the
before the sultan's throne, the black slaves laid the golden trays on
gardens separated from one another only by small ditches, which marked
himself entirely over to his idle habits, and was never out of the
Hansel had seen no cat, but he stayed behind every time to drop a white
mention this to any one, not even to his mother.
spelen, maar hield het huis verdoken. Om eens naar de stad te kunnen gaan
  Remove my nice table,'
he prepared the sand, cast the points, and drew the figures. On
miracles she performed.
  "Munching, crunching, munching,
had seen in the field. "I saw it all with one eye," she said; "for she
voordeelig verkocht aan aannemers en eigenaars. Met deze winst en het
appointed his time, and desired him to take care that they should be
sacrament des huwelijks... Madame wist wat elke dag brengen kon in het
liberaal, uit schrik voor de socialisten, houden het werkvolk tot
wou af koopen aan zeer gunstige voorwaarden. Ondanks dat zijn gemoed
"What!" cried the mother, "was your lamp then the occasion of that
van het leven niet genieten kon zooals hier. Snepvangers vergat zijn
sooner spoken these words, than he found himself on the very spot where
shouts of the children, deriding the magician's folly.
saw the windows, enriched with diamonds, rubies, emeralds, all large
door and knock, and to hear him say, "Dear little sister, let me in."
talrijk! Doch wanneer zij bezoek kregen, en zij hadden nu haast alle
woman standing near her who said, "What are you weeping for, little Two
six weeks about, and retired, leaving Aladdin alone in the hall. He took
the mother to be burnt alive.
--Ja, 'n mensch weet nooit wat er gebeuren kan, beaamde Snepvangers
now grown a charming young woman, and richly dressed in royal robes! Her
and if you bring me some proofs that she is dead, I will reward you
window to contemplate and admire the wonderful palace of his son-in-law.
of the people, and it was common for them to swear by his head. Thus
help you. If you have no mind to learn any handicraft, I will take a
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
genie of the lamp; and no sooner were they alone than their bed was
Het begeesterd gezelschap zong het refrein mee. Maar na den ernst kwam de
De familie Snepvangers woonde weer in de stad. Het renteniershuisje in de
Mevrouw Boeykens had toegestemd; de nieuwe dienstboden bleken te voldoen.
struiken waren haar te bekend, de kleine fruitoogst was lang reeds
bread, changed his money, and on his return gave the rest to his mother,
large porcelain dish fit to hold them; fetch it, and let us see how they
their conversation; "for," said he, "you will soon be at man's estate,
raven, and at last the dove. Snow-white lay for a long, long time in the
kleintjes begonnen. De President deed toen zelf de karweikens op de
one in the middle of her forehead, like the eldest, and she bore the
van verdierenpikken en gronden, van bekenden en notarissen. Zij hadden
as early as the day before; but when she came there, she found the gates
merchant what was the meaning of all this preparation of public
on the carpet which was spread from the sultan's palace to that of
She seated herself when it appeared, and ate and drank very quickly, and
find what had been an unoccupied garden filled up with a magnificent
his good wishes to his daughter. The grand vizier's son, who was almost
but at the end of the forty days, forget not to present yourself before
the poisoned piece of apple which Snow-white had bitten to roll out of
stad te gaan. Hij pinkte dan geheimzinnig, noemde terloops M. Boeykens,
sultan and to the vizier. They undid in a few hours what they had been
wandelingen, die zij niet deden. Hij bracht een Zwitsersch, in hout
dank... 't Is een steun in den strijd die mij zal aanzetten om nog meer
en koffie.
She would not, however, let him speak to her, but pretended that she
I gave him leave to build for my daughter. He has wished to surprise us,
THE STORY OF ALADDIN; OR, THE WONDERFUL LAMP
this she called her feast-day. Fortunately the witch had weak eyes, and
the magician had last left him, and no sign of cave or opening, nor
wegen, knoopte kennis aan met de boeren.
--Hm! Te veel eer; ik ben maar 'n simpele burger, geen advokaat, meende de
zijn wedergroet, maar was blij weer op eigen erf aan te landen en zijn
into a wolf, and devour me."
back so?"
this they found they should have enough left for supper, and two meals
dringende zaken voor die hem dwongen, dwongen tot zijn spijt, naar de
in the capital of the kingdom of China; also, that the person who had
Dat kostte slechts pinten, goede woorden en centen. De uitslag was
the foot, so that he was obliged to hide himself in the bushes, and,
with the crowds of people desirous to see so grand a sight. The graceful
grond gestoken werd, volgden het uitgraven, het metselen der grondvesten,
free; the old witch is dead." He flew like a bird out of his cage at
obey.
the four-and-twenty windows, hearing a man cry something, and seeing a
"No, wife," said the man, "that I will never do. How could I have the
separate might be their place of residence from each other. The younger
like feathers, a queen sat at a window netting. Her netting-needle was
"Oh yes," she replied, "I can, very easily, for the tree belongs to me."
his word and will. When he found that his attempt had failed, he set out
afzonderen! Wat gewoel bood de stad en wat afwisseling! Hij verbeuzelde
The wicked queen felt sure now that she had really killed Snow-white; so
De beslommeringen van vruchten inmaken was voorbij, in den kelder stonden
and fill it with gold and silver. Let there be also kitchens and
moments.
me with you, and release me, I should be so happy."
pleased; for her part, she would have nothing to do with genies, and
size, divided by a narrow valley, which was the place where the magician
den dag aanschouwen. De wind joeg onbarmhartig door de kale boomen, over
wat last, zoo juist boven het terras, want zij lieten wel wat vallen.
en rookend te lanterfanten aan den hoek. De uitstallingen van het
with a saddle, bridle, and other caparisons to correspond with his
exclaimed: "You naughty children, why have you been staying so long in
The second exclaimed, "Who has been eating from my little plate?"
Snepvangers onlangs bij ongunstig verdieren aan zijn broek gehouden, zou
do?"
der waardige echtelingen. Het geluk bleef het dienen. Zekeren avond kwam
while till the moon rises, and then we shall easily find our way home."
When Aladdin was out of the palace, he looked round him on all sides,
wandered about the whole night, and the next day from morning till
little Two Eyes was sent into the fields to take care of the goats, and
"Hansel," said the woman, "what are you stopping for in that way? Come
collected, who hooted, and thought him, as did all who chanced to be
telkens een groote bewondering voor hem, met hem had zij het ver gebracht.
mine, by making your son happy in marriage with the princess my
house-door."
the clear and transparent, diamonds; the deep red, rubies; the paler,
vergeten ons belang niet.... Het is geen geuzenbond, maar eene vereeniging
telling him the price was a piece of gold. Aladdin put the money into
"There is no strength or power but in the great and high God"; and in
groentenleurder geleverd was. Zoo overviel hen de verschroeiende
door het lot begunstigde verdierenpikkers, die rijk geworden waren door
het concert werden de Snepvangers door hun vrienden naar huis gebracht.
--Een bad?
bade him bring her before the sultan. The old woman at once followed the
CHAPTER III
But how surprised were the boy and girl, when they came nearer, to find
er treinen aankwamen, wisten wie voorbij zou stappen, nu een paar boeren,
but all to no purpose: the dear child gave no signs of life, and at last
kasteelvolk dat ergens, uren van de wereld verwijderd, woonde.
Zondag op koffievisiet komen met Snepvangers. Er was geen haast bij, en
visit the grand vizier or the principal lords of the court. Every time
and when she arose, said, "Monarch of monarchs, I beg of you to pardon
cutting wood in the forest; when you feel tired, you can lie down and
Poor Snow-white, who was hungry and thirsty, ate a few vegetables and a
rest of their lives.
"Stand still, dear fawn; don't fear, I must take care of you, but I will
The next day the magician learnt, from the chief superintendent of the
myself just before him; but he was so much taken up with those who
never been before in all their lives. Again they gathered faggots and
Hansel, "let us stop here and have a splendid feast. I will have a piece
but take care you do not meddle with them. Before you enter the first
which they were appointed. The genie then showed him the treasury, which
But how surprised the poor wood-cutter was when Grethel opened and shook
The good creature did as the children wished; she carried Grethel over
the boldness of my petition, and to assure me of your pardon and
first, and then came back for Hansel. And then how happy the children
obey." "I am overjoyed, child," said the African magician, embracing
was obliged to dance. And so in the red, glowing shoes she continued to
exchange."
lamp, the owner of which would be made richer than any earthly ruler,
kwam, nam hij het pannetje aan, trok dan aan de huisbel om Madame en
right senses. I foresaw that you would reproach me with folly and
Oh! how the poor little sister grieved when she was forced to draw the
sprang back as she put out her hand.
duivenkring in het "Algemeen Verbond" en ondervoorzitter der liefdadige
Aladdin's consent, transported him in a moment to the palace he had
This sudden change in the mind of the sultan gave rise to various
him the dish, said, "Behold, admire, wonder! and confess that your eyes
fiercely, and said: "Creep in there, and see if it is hot enough yet to
will not be able to awake thee."
to bestow her on one who values her at so great a price?" "I cannot but
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
en witte koolen. De winterprovisie brandhout en steenkolen was ingedaan,
delighted Snow-white was with the pretty things; she bought several
children, and said, "Get up, you lazy bones, and come into the wood with
greatest monarch in the world. No person but yourself is permitted to
passing by a goldsmith's shop, the goldsmith perceiving him, called to
monarch." No sooner were the words out of his mouth than the genie
--Wel ja, Mama, 't is toch zoo geen reis.
stones. "These are better than pebbles," said Hansel; and he filled his
he went out, he caused two slaves, who walked by the side of his horse,
tegen Tietz en bakkerijen die het brood stelen uit den mond van den
gelegenheid tot tuinieren. Het geurde en fleurde er met bonte bloemen en
where, after the Jew had examined the weight of the tray, he laid down
het huis verrijzen. De schouwvagerszoon leerde de affaire en zijn vrouw,
tonmaatschappij "De Moedige Spelers", nam het voorzitterschap aan van
finest silver, and asked him if he had sold such as that to the Jew;
magnificent habits his wardrobe afforded, and went up into the hall of
--Een bad, herhaalde ook de verbaasde Madame, en voor wat? Wat zullen
zijn buikje bengelde de zwaar gouden ketting en zijn zijden hoed stond
hair black as ebony.
and elegant that it is beyond description. In the middle of the room
said to her, "Good woman, I have observed you to stand many days from
Alleen Snepvangers gebaarde van niets, deed zijn dagelijkschen
cried she, "you are undone! the sultan's fine promises will come to
  Die al de meiskens troosten kan
zagen de villa optrekken met jammerlijke traagheid, steen na steen. In den
De Kolkoensche Haan", "De Zeven Provinciën". In de week dronk hij garsten,
sultan's palace, where he had free access; and at last brought him to
great mob crowding about him, sent one of her women slaves to know what
niet eens over het bevuild tapijt noch over den mildgeschonken wijn.
both by the hands as she spoke, and led them into the house. She gave
distance a small house; and the bird flew and perched on the roof.
permit me first to build a palace worthy to receive the princess your
hij geen blik meer, in de stad was dat overbodig, en daarbij nam hij, uit
had said that the queen was too weak to see him, and never left her
how to get in through that narrow door."
backward, than the door was opened, and Aladdin admitted to the hall.
hanging between them. Nothing in the wide world could be more beautiful
Aladdin, enraptured with this news, made his mother very little reply,
them watched it by turns, so that it was never left alone. And the birds
the lamp first," replied the magician; "it will be troublesome to you,"
her hair; then she dressed herself in old woman's clothes, and was so
dinner, and wash and sew and knit for us, and keep everything neat and
eenzaam en vredig alom. In het dorp brandde nog licht, maar het was er
sooner out of his mouth, than the genie transported him into Africa, to
worden, zij werd zes-en-twintig. Madame trok het raam open, en zij keken
Toen het onderonsje gestoord werd door winkelbezoek had men nog geen
But Two Eyes knew her thoughts; so she led the goat through the long
But the mirror replied:
with.
make him so, or if he was ill. He then told his mother all his
And now that there was nothing to be afraid of, they went back into the
himself, but conducted him to his mother, who, as soon as she saw him so
zochten rond, zijn regenscherm, zijn zijden regenscherm met zilveren
zelfs een pad graven naar het hekpoortje, zoo lag alles onder den
branches, nor the fruit, near enough to pluck even a leaf, for they
of the same metal, which contained the most delicious viands; six large
  "Little goat, if you are able,
   With seven little dwarfs, who are strange to see;
could say to him, but still continued crying, "Who will change old lamps
him, "Take hold of the ring, and lift up that stone." "Indeed, uncle,"
vanished.
recollection, determined to inform himself with certainty whether he
live in an honourable way. Tell me freely what you think of my proposal;
zich als eerelid opnemen in de onpartijdige fanfarenmaatschappij "De
dreadful season of scarcity in the land, the poor wood-cutter could not
Then to her surprise the mirror replied:
frightened to see dear little Snow-white lying on the ground without
China. "We will go no farther now," said he to Aladdin; "I will show you
must get food somewhere else."
handsome, but so proud and vain that she could not endure that anyone
mounted him, and went in the midst of a large troop of slaves to the
and discovered a stone with a brass ring fixed in it. Aladdin was so
The apple was so cleverly made that the red side alone was poisonous.
  "Er is gebeurd bij den pastoor van Heylen,
Bagdad are not to be compared to mine for size or beauty; and I am sure
Fortunately evening soon arrived, and the seven dwarfs returned home.
Aladdin had not long concealed himself before the princess came. She was
bezig met de verhuisventen. Na eenige rommeldagen kwam alles op zijn
basket, set all down in a spot where nobody saw him; then going down
the subterranean palace, are jewels of inestimable value, and fit fit
town. I shall return by noon, and will then tell you what must be done
   A thousand times fairer than thou is she."
her son should be guilty of greater extravagance, complied with his
By the next night they had eaten all the provisions the genie had
had it not been for a few berries which they picked they must have
nachten zijn eenzaam lied. Dan vroor het weer weken lang of gierden
--Wel verdorie, Snepvangers, zijt gij het? En ik die dacht dat ge reeds
the sultan. Aladdin rose before daybreak, awakened his mother, pressing
Zekeren avond in de lente had het echtpaar een belangrijk gesprek in de
Een oogenblik hoorde men de stilte, dan zei hij langzaam, met tranen in de
recht hadden op rust. De winkel gaf te veel slameur, en hun kind kon
touch.
Then had her envious heart rest, at least such rest as a heart full of
find it when I want it. The ring I cannot resolve to part with; for
one. How came that vile genie to address himself to me, and not to you,
perplexity he ordered the grand vizier to be sent for with expedition.
private door. When he came into the princess's apartments, he said to
take it out of my sight, and put it where you please. I had rather you
knechtje om den stootwagen te voeren en de bestellingen rond te dragen.
amethysts; and the yellow, sapphires. Aladdin, ignorant of their value,
Aladdin rose that morning by daybreak, put on one of the most
have been together! After they had been alone in the forest for some
--Ik ben ziek van goesting naar schelvisch, droomde Mijnheer.
worthy of his uncle's favour, served up supper, at which they talked of
history of some of his companions, and when he had learnt all he desired
orgel te draaien. Voor de open deur probeerden aankomelingen te dansen.
appearance, but she could not help saying;
So when little Two Eyes started with her goat, Three Eyes followed, and
winkelen bij Tietz.
they had been left alone in the wood.
Eyes, what shall I give you for this?"
to him, and they were both very vehement in their complaints of the
by you to insure success. In the mean time, I shall disguise myself, and
me."
de man moest maar meekiezen.
   A thousand times fairer is than thou."
as to give a new lamp for an old one, without taking anything for the
Aladdin's mother returned home much more gratified than she had
trinkets, and a beautiful silk lace for her stays, but she did not see
children must go away; we will take them deeper into the forest this
When Aladdin's mother had taken all these precautions, for fear of the
naar de stad gingen werken. Hij mengde zich in hun gesprekken, voelde
the merchants and artisans had their particular streets according to
The queen was furious when she heard this, for she knew the mirror was
stuffs, and jewellery, and, oftentimes joining in their conversation,
heart to leave my children all alone in the wood, where the wild beasts
vergoeding  van de ouderliefde die ze niet geven konden, met geschenken
"Oh, if I only had a little child, I should like it to be as fair as
The princess received her mother with sighs and tears, and signs of deep
that she might see through the lattices he had not exaggerated in his
bath of the finest marble of all sorts of colours; where he was
this time, and find out whether there is anyone who brings food to
instant returned with a large silver tray, holding twelve covered dishes
heard this she began to cry bitterly; but it was all useless, she was
daglicht? Neen, 't was de lantaarnschijn. Hoe laat was het nu wel? Even
"Oh, you fool," replied the stepmother, "if you refuse to do this, you
gevoel vreemden, ondergeschikten in dit huis te zijn.
endeavours to keep him to his work were vain, for no sooner was his back
One day as Aladdin was walking about the town, he heard an order
him farther, to execute his design, he took an opportunity to sit down
at the expiration of that time come again."
werd. Tot zijn verbazing werd plots de poort geopend en liep de knecht hem
jaren gediend bij Notaris Boeykens in de Hobokenstraat. In het statig,
--Zijt ge zot, Snepvangers? Daar zenden ze andere kleppers, die daar iets
not like your father's, and would prefer another; I will endeavour to
twenty more to go before me in two ranks. Besides these, bring my mother
"Come, children, gather some wood, and I will make a fire, for it is
will prepare at once to satisfy his request."
"Ah!" she replied, "I must weep. The goat, who every day spread my table
and having prostrated herself, said to the sultan, "Sire, my son knows
the same place in the divan. The sultan knew her again, and directed his
bake the bread." But if Grethel had obeyed her, she would have shut the
who knew how dim her old eyes were, always stuck a bone through the bars
de beste kleeren aan en 't was vette keuken. De schrale Madame in haar
indulging in idle words against the sultan, the vizier, or his son, he
of these slaves, whom they supposed to be kings.
het salon boven den winkel, waar men op rood-fluweelen stoelen rond de
een hunner zijn weerzin voor het landleven had moeten te kennen geven,
When Aladdin's mother had taken away and set by what was left, she went
supply me with the richest and most magnificent robe ever worn by a
dat eerlijkheid en vlijt steeds passende belooning vinden in dit aardsche
beautiful Snow-white lying in it, and read what was written upon the lid
They shut the queen up in the bath, and tried to suffocate her, and the
Aan deze ordelievende, deftige levenswijze brachten de seizoenen met wind
never before seen such a blaze of charms, was dazzled and enchanted.
did not understand.
natten herfst keerden zij peinzend terug, droomend van het schoone
Madame zekeren dag tot de ontdekking kwamen dat zij niet jong meer waren,
festivity. "Whence came you, good woman," said he, "that you don't know
Marieken maar op feestdagen kunnen bezoeken en haar telkens, een
massive gold and silver bricks laid alternately. Let each front contain
sustenance made him so faint that he remained for a long time as dead.
haar was echter lichtjes met het pinijzer gekroezeld.
for our deliverance. You must overcome your aversion to the magician,
--'t Is geen politiek en toch politiek, Snepvangers.... Tegenwoordig is
"Child, was not your father called Mustapha the tailor?" "Yes, sir,"
When the supper was ended, there entered a company of female dancers,
comb in her hair they pulled it out quickly, and Snow-white very soon
Was hij met den tijd vetter geworden, zij niet. Haar rusteloosheid had er
window made Aladdin turn his head that way, and perceiving the princess,
zangers in de zanglokalen aan de Werf. De president viel in met:
daughter.
Snow-white on the ground; but though they lifted her up, there were no
which I have spun; I will go and sell it, and buy bread and something
African magician drew Aladdin insensibly beyond the gardens, and crossed
propagandatocht door de herbergen. Hij had andere katten te geeselen,
out of his mother's hand, and said to the genie boldly, "I am hungry,
find it.
reached it, and the boy was just stooping to drink, when the sister
began to talk about her, and say that she would be more lovely even than
to throw handfuls of money among the people as he passed through the
pale red, and others deeper; some green, blue, and purple, and others
   But not when Snow-white is near;
fine carpet for the princess to walk upon from the sultan's palace to
moon rose. "You know, little sister," he said, "that I have thrown
   So beautiful as thou."
dat zij ruzie hadden gekregen bij de betaling van dit uitspanningsken.
lives."
was quite dark, and poor little Grethel was afraid; but Hansel comforted
had... Maar het dwaaste van al, M. Snepvangers moest ook eens
returning soon after, found the window, as he wished it to be, like the
Aladdin went out of the sultan's palace in a condition of exceeding
and perceiving a peasant going into the country, hastened after him; and
sultan closed his morning audience, according to the terms in which it
At last they arrived between two mountains of moderate height and equal
--Spreek mij van geen buiten. Madame Snepvangers, ik ben er bang
which he mounted, and rode to his son-in-law's palace, with some few
can express, and am resolved that I will ask her in marriage of the
The sultan hearkened to this discourse without showing the least anger;
of the air came near and mourned for Snow-white; first the owl, then the
stillekens aan het huwelijk, en Mijnheer aan zijn parapluie en zijn
When Snow-white heard the old cry, "Goods to sell, fine goods to sell,"
almost as strong as ever, and so, when he again heard the holloa of the
up, and rubbing it, the genie immediately appeared. "Genie," said
that, after wandering about for a whole day, she had found their house.
and watched."
poor child in and baked her for dinner, instead of boiling Hansel.
was soon fast asleep.
these words as soon as the door was opened, and the children were so
Zoohaast de dagen korter werden, en de vroege herfst zijn killig, buiïg
to come, and poisoned a beautiful apple. Outwardly it looked ripe and
en kippenhok werden gebouwd, netjes groen geverfd, en bevolkt. Zij
riepen uit den tijd toen zij ook nog zongen of luisteren gingen naar de
the jewels one after another, he turned to his grand vizier, and showing
and went on eating as if they never meant to leave off, without a
they wandered farther, but as they approached, she heard in the bubbling
talking together over their sorrow, and the poor husband sighed, and
She opened the door, and said, "I will let you go this time; but pray do
provoked at this obstinate refusal, flew into a passion, threw a little
Madame Craen zong sentimenteel
most beautiful in the land, it replied:
The mother took them from her, and gave them to her sisters, as she said
jealousy, because little Two Eyes was the only one who could reach the
In the meantime the wicked stepmother, who had caused these two young
you obey me. Go, therefore, boldly, and we shall both be rich all our
At this question the youth hung down his head, and was not a little
you."
till her little feet became quite sore; and towards evening she saw, to
he called the others, who came quickly, and holding their lights over
te vechten... Ik bedank u allemaal uit den grond van mijn hart, vooral den
zelfbewustzijn van zijn kunnen en zijn durven. Glad als een paling was
in one of the gardens, on the brink of a fountain of clear water, which
both sentenced to die--the daughter to be devoured by wild beasts, and
the hollow tree, so they left their place of shelter and wandered away
golden collar, and then led him away into the depths of the forest.
Very soon after this the queen had a little daughter who was very fair,
En de fooien, tot zij eindelijk een flinken duit bezaten. En op een
genoten bij de nonnekens, kende manieren, sprak fransch, speelde piano,
sumptuously attired than his own daughter. This gave him a higher
--Alleen in den nacht, zuchtte Marieken, alleen in den triestigen
receive me in the same manner."
soon opened, and Aladdin conducted up into the chamber. It is impossible
bleef zitten soezen, en de hond, de grimmige dog, bevuilde het huis.
late brother's; and during that time have travelled into the Indies,
that you obey me punctually, if you would reap the advantages which I
As he thus spoke the good little dwarfs were full of sympathy for him,
Snow-white longed so much for the beautiful fruit as she saw the
This plan just suited Aladdin, who hated work. He told the magician he
countenance the good news she brought to her son. "My son," said she,
  "Little goat, when you're able,
    "Who drinks of me, a wolf will be."
When Aladdin had thus prepared himself for his first interview with the
place.
and were introduced into the sultan's presence; where the chief jeweller
The druggist, judging Aladdin by his habit to be very poor, told him he
ben heelemaal van streek... 't heeft me danig gepakt.
had any other commands. "Yes," answered Aladdin, "bring me a charger
Later zeilde hij alleen terug naar het station. Plots was zijn vriend
He came again the next day, as he had promised, and took Aladdin with
to sell it, and addressing himself to a Jew whom he met in the streets,
palace of Aladdin.
and the next morning I found myself in this unknown country, which I am
never leave you." So she untied her little golden garter and fastened it
in haar winkel, bedrijvig van den vroegen morgen tot den avond. Het mesje
--Naar de stad!?
sneeuwstormen, zoodat alles blank lag en bedolven. Eens moesten zij
muziek was en bedrijvigheid, en waar zij nooit onder de drukkende
magician, called to him, and showing him the old lamp, said, "Give me a
and required him to prepare and present the gift immediately, before the
joviaal. Voor zij het wisten zaten zij elkaar genoegelijk toe te knikken
Hansel and Grethel seated themselves by the fire, and when noon arrived
Na zijne eerste gelukkige speculatie kreeg M. Snepvangers meer
Little Two Eyes lived for a long time in great happiness; but she heard
bargain. When he had sold the last dish, he had recourse to the tray,
was het geluk volkomen in het gezin. Marieken had eene fijne opvoeding
gave the old woman a push which sent her right into the oven, then she
en dan trokken de vrienden weg met hoogroode gezichten. Tot afscheid
--Dat is nu onze Antoine..., het eenig kind dat over bleef van de vier ....
neringdoenden zijn den politieken winkel beu.... En nu vraag ik u of ge
into the robing-chamber, where he had undressed himself the night
by partaking of an entertainment in your apartments. Before he leaves,
thoughtful and melancholy than usual; and asked what had happened to
sometimes to one mosque, and sometimes to another, to prayers, or to
vroeg en 's avonds laat voorbijtrok, in aantocht was.
reach their father's house till break of day.
carried the present to the sultan, to walk by my side and follow me, and
khan. His end was answered, and by his silence he got rid of the
starved to death in the woods; then we should have died together!"
bad company, and to seek that of wise and prudent men, to improve by
something more." She took some fine sand and water to clean it; but had
kruk, eveneens spoorloos verdwenen. Voor zijn voeten echter lag het
Na een jaar reeds namen zij een meid in dienst, een kloeke deerne uit
zijne vijf zinnen maar eens bijeenrapen! Wat zou hij doen, wat zou hij
regen of wind, of men al of niet zijn paraplu moest meesjouwen op de
When little Two Eyes saw this, she went out into the field, seated
he saluted her with an air that expressed his joy. "To lose no time,"
Suf stond hij voor de woning van den notaris te wachten tot het licht
Toen zij het eens waren dat Snepvangers M. Boeykens onder vier oogen om
De drogist zei hoe aangenaam het hem was te mogen kennismaken met de
bring me something to eat." The genie disappeared immediately, and in an
wicked stepmother soon got ready, and dressing herself again like an old
poisoned him was of mean birth, though married to a princess, a sultan's
the attendants of the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, looking through the
vriend... alles voor den werkman, en de burgers worden vergeten....
her great joy, a pretty little house. So she went up to it, and found
I, and the other slaves of the lamp." "Hear me," said Aladdin; "thou
dark, cold earth."
cried out, "Pray, uncle, lend me your hand, to help me out." "Give me
stands, or transport it back where it first stood." "Your command,"
the mountains to the dwarfs' cottage.
--Och, als ik u daar plezier kan mee doen ... Ja dan wil ik wel eens naar
"You, indeed!" cried her sisters; "you, with your two eyes, what can you
eens waren, 't Was heerlijk te denken, aan de koele buitenlucht, aan den
plate, which is of the finest silver we use in our shops, I will let you
rente bezorgde. Nu waren zij eigenaars, al was het ook maar van huizen met
answered the boy, "but he has been dead a long time."
aandeelen in naamlooze vennootschappen. Wanneer zij samen 's zondags naar
you have had enough, and you do not want the table any more, you need
woke, cried: "Get up, you lazy hussy, and draw some water, that I may
At these words the African magician threw his arms about Aladdin's neck,
of, and carried by the like number of black slaves, who shall be led by
for the greatest monarchs. All the precious stones the jewellers have in
voorbij en riep goedenavond; hij verschrok even, riep dan zeer joviaal
liked to eat. So one day she seated herself on a mound in the field, and
that happened to her during the night; on which the sultaness enjoined
daughter. But as I cannot marry her without some further proof of your
son being able to support her in royal state, you may tell him I will
own apartment, and sat up to await the return of the genie, according to
with the earth over it in the same manner as it lay at the arrival of
another street or two, he walked till he came to one of the city gates,
die zich mochten verheugen in de klandizie van het notarishuis. Een mooi
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
me," replied the boy.
merchants, where they sold cloth of gold and silver, linens, silk
"Dry up your tears, little Two Eyes," said the wise woman; "I will tell
nog lang van elkaars aantrekkelijk gezelschap, behandelden alle mogelijke
piano of las weer een boek van Conscience. En zij dacht aan het heilig
like the rest were in vain, sent for the jewellers and goldsmiths, and
opgespaarde geld kocht Snepvangers een paar bouwvallige krotten in de
mankeerde.
--Och Papa dat zal aardig zijn als ze bij u komen bellen voor plaatskens
bestaarde, aan de kennissen die als schoonzoon welkom hadden kunnen zijn.
Not far off ran a pretty streamlet, looking clear and bright; but here
will be easy for me to avoid the hunters now, and my foot feels quite
het een aard had. Hij was weldra berucht om zijn kwaadaardigheid, erkende
suf over de platte blessen. Zij was blij toen alles weer opgeredderd was
sympathie die mij betuigd is geworden... Ik kan het niet zoo met
   A thousand times more beautiful than thee."
rendered him, as well as himself, invisible, and transported him into a
het ook te triestig!
kunnen vertellen!
knetterlicht der kaarsen. Vreemd en eenzelvig stond kerkgevel en
afterward all the four-and-twenty; but when he was convinced that the
--Ja, onze jongen is werkzaam en braaf, maar ... zoo'n toonbeeld moest
exhaled from the dishes. "Child," said she, "to whom are we obliged for
petroleum. 't Was een geploeter door de duisternis over den slijkerigen
from my hands, the greater pleasure he will do me." As soon as Aladdin's
daughter. I pray you to grant me sufficient ground near your palace, and
muziek wegstierf en het rumoer in de straat opgehouden had, zat de familie
het krinolienen waren. Wanneer een dans uit was, en het orgel zweeg, dan
supper. On it were arranged seven little plates, seven little spoons,
really tired her; and, as her sister continued her song, she was obliged
the seventh, and that was so comfortable that she laid herself down, and
they each ate the piece of bread which their stepmother had given them
attended by a great crowd of ladies, slaves, and mutes, who walked on
Watching an opportunity, she left the castle, and took her way to the
and pursuing his way through the suburbs, which were very extensive, at
they went to the storehouses, which were filled with all things
dien gemeenteraad, waarschuwde Madame.
verspreiden; de vrouwen fezelden over het huishouden en over de menschen
groenten, de eerste vruchten. En wat zij zelf gewonnen hadden, achter
"No, thank you," cried Snow-white; "I dare not take it."
politiek verdiept, eikaars vernuft en wijs inzicht waardeerden.
poogde te borgen. Zij kon pingelen bij de reizigers en leveranciers, wist
speedily as you were brought from thence."
Roepzaal, zijn verkoopingen, zijn stamkroeg en zijn vrienden; Madame
him leave in company with Aladdin should make inquiries after the youth.
zij in het sukkelstraatje, zoodat de zaak wel een beetje achteruitboerde.
wood-cutter, who had two children--a boy named Hansel, and his sister,
plaats. Nu vonden zij gelegenheid om hun eigendom te "ontdekken." Marie
men in den zomer zou kunnen koffiedrinken en genieten van den tuin.
ever.
As soon as they reached a thick part of the wood, their stepmother said:
hij Snepvangers over iets gewichtigs te onderhouden.
get up and eat; here is what will put you in heart, and at the same time
as the table was so well furnished. But all the time Aladdin's mother
The magician presently set them on fire; and when they were in a blaze,
exchange old lamps for new ones?" As he went along, a crowd of children
eerzame en onschuldige uitspanning ging men eten, wat dutten, trok dan
her fears, and explained to her the treachery practiced upon him by the
world was so beautiful as the sultan my father's palace, but the sight
"Ik verklaar volmondig fier te zijn als lid van den Bond der neringdoenden
roemde het salon waar men zoo'n prachtig uitzicht had op het bouwland aan
treasure, destined to be yours, and which will make you richer than the
the hands of the slaves who brought them, with an order to throw them by
branches and the fruit evaded their efforts, and sprung back at every
little Two Eyes; hide yourself somewhere, for we shall be quite ashamed
Princess Buddir al Buddoor's, each carrying a complete dress fit for any
buitensporigheden bedrijven, zich te buiten te gaan, Goeden Vrijdag
mother: "Go and tell your son that I wait with open arms to embrace him;
nog, stil van opgetogenheid, te luisteren onder het gaslicht. Madame kloeg
a butcher's knife, went out, and stuck the good little goat in the
om te wandelen en om plannen voor de toekomst te beramen. De andere
For poor Hansel's breakfast the best of everything was cooked; but
Snow-white, you must never again let anyone in while we are not with
apotheker-drogist. Zij bleven maar in d'affaire uit gewoonte en uit
The magician next pulled from his girdle a handkerchief with cakes and
Op een stuk bouwgrond, waar enkel schrale dennen groeiden, door
De badkuip werd vergeten. Antoine had zijn winkel gesloten en bleef in
he would take him to spend that day in the country, and on the next he
zij dan over eigendommen, gronden en centjes verdienen. Rond acht uur kwam
fruit, and she went into the house feeling more spiteful to her than
a branch for you if you like." They gave themselves a great deal of
stadhuiswoorden zeggen, maar 't komt uit mijn hart, onze stad heeft
volgens de meening van Snepvangers schuld aan. Naast haar man voelde zij
replied, "Genie, show me where the palace I caused to be built now
stepmother, "What will become of us, for I cannot earn enough to support
her lips vermilion. It is not therefore surprising that Aladdin, who had
will come and see her to-night, and bid her get us something for supper;
stream." So he took his sister by the hand, and they ran together to
Before Aladdin went home, he called at a baker's, bought some cakes of
with its silver leaves and golden fruit.
little Two Eyes did not handle them properly; but this was only from
earth.
lichtschijn voor hem uit, de maan lachte aan den hemel, en het dorp lag
of the divan shut. She went six times afterward on the days appointed,
kale hagen en de boomenstokjes met zuinigen bladertooi.
--Och, mama, nu willen ze mij met alle geweld naar den gemeenteraad
of gold; but he ran so fast, and had got so far, that it would have been
leven geweest, waarvoor zij gewroet hadden, gescharreld en gespaard.
and being utterly amazed at the loss of his palace, was speechless. At
of my misfortune."
As they walked, Hansel, who had the bread in his pocket, broke off
left for her, but she did not touch them. The next morning she went away
The jewellers and goldsmiths examined the three-and-twenty windows with
every house, and the children heard their stepmother talking after they
music led the procession, followed by a hundred state ushers, and the
fulfill my promise as soon as he shall send me forty trays of massy
finger, that I may feel if you are fat enough for eating." But Hansel,
city, to some magnificent palaces, to each of which belonged beautiful
three on the right hand and three on the left.
There was once a woman who had three daughters, of whom the eldest was
Marieken kwam het eerst tot de werkelijkheid terug, draaide de overbodige
met een paraplu uit een deurken te voorschijn; kwam er droogte in de lucht
him, and brought him another habit, as rich and magnificent as that worn
onafhankelijk is! Den President heb ik over u gesproken en hij vond dat
envy and jealousy of our neighbours. However, since the genies frighten
This stranger was a sorcerer, known as the African magician, as he had
over the mountains to the dwarfs' cottage.
time, and the little sister had grown a lovely maiden, and the fawn a
they reached the thickest and densest part of the forest, where they had
till evening. At last they found themselves in a large forest; it began
intended to execute the design that had brought him from Africa to
volschonk als trouwe regisseur van het spel.
out alone, to gather moss and dried leaves, to make him a soft bed.
house, uncle, than any we have yet seen," By this artifice, the cunning
om er een te zoeken, dat hij nog jong genoeg is ... hij is nu
At this account, Aladdin was thunderstruck, and he bethought himself of
four large brass cisterns placed on each side, full of gold and silver;
worse treatment by an invisible agency, he determined to declare the
"Hush, Grethel," he whispered, "don't be so unhappy; I know what to do."
Boeykens, de peperkoekbakker van de St-Jacobsmarkt, die koffiekoopman van
night, as the most suitable time for the design he had in contemplation.
Aladdin showed the African magician the house, and carried the two
seen the children go away, and, following them cautiously like a snake,
acquired a knowledge of the world, and a desire to improve himself. By
as she liked in the little bed, while its owner slept with one of his
treffelijken burgersjongen!
His son, who was called Aladdin, was a very careless and idle fellow. He
affliction. He suspected there was something extraordinary in this
verlicht. Ja, het licht klaarde reeds helder overal. Ginder, in de
soon as he began to speak."
's avonds.
drie-en-dertig.
naderde hoe luider de hond begon te blaffen. Het tuinpoortje knarste open,
zien. Maar hij vond zijn uurwerk niet in zijn zak, tastte instinctmatig
werd. Het was er zoo gezellig dat de familie niet weigeren kon te
knowing that this would be so, had already given his commands to the
well dressed, was transported with joy, and bestowed a thousand
--Ik wasch me alle dagen kind, maar in een bad, denk eens na!
of them and give them all they wanted. And then they did indeed repent
drew on; but no one came to fetch the poor children. When they awoke it
When Two Eyes saw this, she knew that One Eye could not betray her, so
what a beautiful little child!" they said to each other, and were so
sultan and the divan rise, I would have you return to the palace with
ministers of state then retired, as also did all those whose business
kruidenierszaak over te nemen en hun eigen meester te worden. Spitsvondig
provisions I had in the house yesterday; but I have a little cotton
of his cage, which she thought was his finger, for she could not see;
One day in the middle of winter, when the snowflakes fell from the sky
This entertainment lasted till night, when Aladdin would have taken
only say:
no sooner had she taken one mouthful than she fell on the ground dead.
alles politiek om de kiezers te lokken en stemmen te winnen. Katholiek en
and in a month's time had not finished half their work. In short, they
became quite worn out, and could not sleep for hours, but lay thinking
joining his hands to pray he rubbed the ring which the magician had put
safety, and to treat her with the utmost possible respect. At break of
As soon as he recovered, he related to his mother all that had happened
was disobedient to his father and mother, and would go out early in the
therefore, I hope you will give me leave to keep it, and to wear it
--Dat mag niet, beweerde Snepvangers als beleedigd.
soon as their parents slept, Hansel got up, intending to go out and
it all their hopes. And on this very morning, when little Two Eyes
behind the door of the bath, so that he could not fail to see her face.
sooner had they entered it, and dismissed their attendants, than the
had told her to do.
value. Furnish also twenty slaves, as richly clothed as those who
sneed langs twee kanten en zij werden met de jaren stijve burgers, die
deserted hut, and the sister was overjoyed, for she thought it would
this manner they lived, till Aladdin had sold the twelve dishes singly,
uitblazen in de nieuwe tuinzetels. Hier kloegen zij wel eens over de
On the very next day, the magician set out and travelled with the utmost
de volgende dagen.
--Wel, ik zal maar gauw gaan.
were conducted in the sultan's palace with great magnificence. The
four feet deep, leading to a door. "Descend, my son," said the African
but give me leave to sit opposite to it, that although I see not the
werden vervuld.
I will cut the apple in halves; you shall have the rosy-cheek side, and
town, and embracing him as before, put two pieces of gold into his hand,
As soon as this apple was ready, the wicked queen painted her face,
she slept; for her skin was snow white, her cheeks rosy red, and her
"and it will vanish from your eyes."
Ja, dat was toch wel gezellig! Daar schoof soms iemand in 't duister
When it was quite dark the masters of the house came home. They were
As he left the next morning he saw the coffin on the mountain-side, with
placed her women from the great hall to the foot of the staircase, that
afwisten. Zij zochten nieuwe veranderingen en verbeteringen, lieten voor
Marieken, na lang pramen, bespeelde de piano die anders nooit geopend
other slaves of the lamp."
so beautiful and brilliant in the sultan's palace, and the richest robes
Beiden waren een beetje verlegen met hun ongewone, dwaze luim van den
account of them.
de beesten. Zalig zoo niets te moeten doen, ongegeneerd te luieren wijl
then with the money you make of them you can lay in fresh goods, and
slag, die spraken van interesten en winsten, van verkavelingen en... de
of your father, and you ought to make no reply. But child," added he,
treated with the greatest honour and respect as one dearly beloved."
magnificent apparel, ordered them to be brought before her apartment,
with all the precaution the fear of death could inspire, crossed the
One Eye seated herself, and, not being accustomed to walk so far, or to
money for which Aladdin had sold the dishes and tray was sufficient to
leeg stonden.
owing to that lamp; and what grieves me most is, that I have been the
her to go to the sultan's palace, and to get admittance, if possible,
   Fairer a thousand times than thee."
onderzochten zij de kansen om noch Mevrouw noch den Notaris te krenken,
mother had retired, the sultan put an end to the audience; and rising
to them, transported it in an instant into Aladdin's chamber, where he
Near the borders of a large forest dwelt in olden times a poor
familie Boeykens, eten in een hôtel over het station, zeer verteederd en
the day before, wrapped it in two fine napkins, and set forward for the
took it in his hands, looked for the part where his mother had rubbed it
gebracht, en afgevaardigden van de verschillende vereenigingen, hiertoe
I may command, for it is a matter of great consequence both to you and
different from what he expected in the son of one so humble as Aladdin's
loaves, the two flagons and cups, and to smell the savoury odour which
heart, and it fell dead.
Aladdin then addressed his mother: "Madam, pray lose no time; before the
sultan, "and will give orders about it immediately."
happen to us, Hansel?"
For two nights the baby's nurse saw a figure of the queen come into the
looked out of her chamber window of the castle, she saw, to her great
After wandering about for some time, they at last found a little
--Dat wil zooveel zeggen als levend begraven!
As it was now nearly dark, he ran up to the little cottage, knocked at
Elk wou het gelag voor zijn rekening nemen, maar ten slotte betaalde elk
foreheads, and at the same time the white slaves did the same. When they
When evening came, and the poor sister felt tired, she would kneel down
resolved immediately to revenge his death, and at once departed for
En Snepvangers ging met zijn paraplu en zijn vischnet onder den arm.
om voor het avondmaal te zorgen, overviel hun voor de eerste maal het
Hansel and Grethel were so frightened that they let fall what they held
door den aandoezelenden avond. Leerjongens en leegloopers stonden fluitend
but retired to his chamber. There he rubbed his lamp, and the obedient
the midst of a large plain, where his palace stood, at no great distance
more success, for, as she appeared to grasp a branch, or fruit, her hand
met genoegen, met verlichting werd aan de toekomst gedacht, aan morgen en
marriage.
long. But there is no harm done; I will go again to-morrow; perhaps the
entrance, and led her into a large hall, illuminated with an infinite
dejection. At last, upon her pressing on her the duty of telling her all
dwarfs seated themselves round her, and wept and mourned for three days.
will help us across if we ask her," said the child; and she sung,
to enter on the honour granted me by your majesty, yet I beg you to
hebben wij noodig, wij, handelaars, wij, ambachtslieden en eigenaars!
halls just as the African magician had described. He went through them
--M. Boeykens is dood!
porceleinen kuipje met mahoniehouten deksel. Madame Crean leunde tegen
half a dram of the powder; which the druggist weighed and gave him,
Then she would go away quite contented, for she knew the magic mirror
and gave him the coffin. Then the prince called his servants, and the
sorrow and grief. He at once ordered a horse to be saddled, which he
gold each. "What a villain!" cried the goldsmith. "But," added he, "my
Met den eersten trein trok hij naar Capellen. De nacht lag nog over de
thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all
all sorts of good things for you to eat, as much as you like. And when
Nadat de verhuiswagen weggereden was, nam het gezin, op zijn paaschbest
presently returned with the horse, the forty slaves, ten of whom carried
dan achter hem wanneer hij tot deze gevolgtrekking kwam. In het dorp
rubbed it. At that summons the genie appeared, and said, "What wouldst
out before her, they did her no harm. She ran on as long as she could
officers in habits of ceremony, mounted on horses richly caparisoned,
she made the attempt, and, do what she would, she could not reach one.
Daar dronk men ergens een pot Münchener, waarbij Mijnheer de bekenden
to do that."
hebben  in het Bestuur.... Wij zijn onpartijdig in ons belang, liberaal
As the looking-glass thus replied, the queen trembled and quaked with
When night came, the bride and bridegroom were again attended to their
magnificence.
Early the next morning the magician called again for Aladdin, and said
please him, she asked him to exchange cups with her, and giving the
The sultan granted his request, and he said to the old woman, "Good
they came from.
Craen achtte Snepvangers een wijnkenner. Een lichte roes woog op allen en
--Zoo, wat gedacht, wantrouwde Madame, dat kunnen we niet krijgen in het
Een week zonnetje verwelkomde hen buiten. In de villa, waar het rook naar
of the plate. Aladdin, taking the money very eagerly, retired with so
water; and, as the tears rolled down her cheeks, she exclaimed: "It
as hers, and arraying himself in her garb, taking her veil, the large
zichzelf overtuigde dat zij gelukkig waren. Zijn lantaarn wierp een verren
you are safe; you are with me."
M. Snepvangers een weinig geestelijk verheugd thuis. Zijne vrouw duidde
rentenieren in de oude buurt waar het zoo gezellig was, waar de menschen
apron full.
Ook ditmaal liet de opwinding een beetje haarpijn achter, en Madame streek
my wishes."
  "Young queen, thou are so wondrous fair,
snor, waarop hij zenuwachtig kauwde, terwijl hij wonderen verhaalde van
om het vliegenpapier ...
geregeld en op tijd.
then took Aladdin into the apartment from whence he was wont to look at
said, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave, and
the long grass, and said, "Come, One Eye, let us sit down here and rest,
One Eye slid down from the tree, and Three Eyes climbed up. But Three
he wrapped some up in the skirts of his vest, and crammed his bosom as
heard in the babbling of the brook:
door den verdierenpikker aangezet, brachten complimenten en bloemen.
Vogelpikvereeniging in de buurt "De Lustige Pikkers" en van de
Nieuwe verandering kwam in hun leven, toen de achttienjarige dochter thuis
from whence it was brought hither." The genie bowed his head in token of
way was lined with files of spectators. Nothing, indeed, was ever seen
When they saw Snow-white lying dead on the ground, they knew at once
en straten hen zoo bekend waren, waar zij meetelden in het leven, waar
They knocked at the door, and when their stepmother opened it, she
Na de hoogmis wandelden zij naar de bloemenmarkt op de Groenplaats, zagen
groette en de dames critiek uitoefenden over kleeding en menschen. Na deze
hij voor het avondmaal. Madame vertelde van menschen die zij ontmoet had,
Hobokenstraat was kraakzindelijk. Het geveltje, frisch in de verf, was
his own khan, where, meeting with some merchants he had become
The king placed the maiden before him on his horse and rode away to his
"This palace is one of the wonders of the world; for where in all the
ceremonies, the princess took leave of the sultan her father. Bands of
when Aladdin told him that he had sold him twelve such, for a piece of
"Master," replied the genie, "I obey you."
little beds, near each other, covered with white quilts.
THE MAGIC MIRROR
having passed the night in the same unpleasant way, they were in the
--Ja, zoo plots... ja hij was wel niet goed, maar niemand kon zich daaraan
scimitar between them, to show that he was determined to secure her
other slaves of the lamp." "I am hungry," said Aladdin, "bring me
Poor man, he had not had a moment's peace since the children had been
assured him that he was a fit boy for his purpose, inquired his name and
length reached a lonely spot, where he stopped till the darkness of the
"Who has been eating my vegetables?" said the fourth.
--Neen, zeker niet! ...
a work." "I have more than are necessary," said the sultan; "come to my
"by the power of the ring, to transport me to the spot where my palace
dry, he stopped in the garden to observe the trees, which were loaded
Then said the mother to little One Eye, "Climb up, my child, and break
blessings upon the magician.
boeken, die zij kon leenen in het dorp. Madame gunde sinds lang niet meer
"Go away, go away; I must not let you in."
  Come and deck my pretty table."
before; it is the only plan to save ourselves from starvation." But the
named "One Eye," because she had only one eye in the middle of her
took one of the dishes, and went to look for his Jew chapman; but
Mijnheer Snepvangers en Madame Snepvangers, geboren Verstraete, hadden
te verhoogen. De kreeft werd nu een eenig belangrijk ding, de wijnsoorten
in vroeger jaren gekocht had. Buiten joeg het macadamstof omhoog onder
de stad in. Hoe nu naar huis gesukkeld waar men angstig op hem zat te
according to his fancy. But the brightness and lustre they emitted in
king. The coffin was placed on the side of the mountain, and each of
"Oh! here comes a boat," cried Grethel, but she was mistaken; it was
speculations and reports. Nobody but Aladdin knew the secret, and he
So the hunter enticed the child into the wood; but when he took out his
said: "That old market-woman was no other than your wicked stepmother.
The dwarfs talked a little while together, and then one said, "Do you
son's foolish imagination. "Where," said she, "can he get so many large
       *       *       *       *       *
   None can with thee at all compare."
child and the little fawn.
person who is diseased but she puts her hand on them and cures them."
While they were talking, the fawn came bounding in, looking quite well
had told him about her, and said at last, "I love you better than all in
ben zoo geen wauwelaar van een advocaat, maar ik heb veel ondervinding
named Mustapha. He was very poor. He could hardly, by his daily labour,
acquainted with since his arrival, he gave them a treat, to bring them
signs of breath from her mouth, and they found she was really dead. Yet
     Who is most beautiful of all?"
schenen de boomen langs den macadamweg een beetje koelte te bewaren.
matter to overtake such rapid footsteps. Once, when he thought he had
brother had already knelt by the stream to drink, and as the first drop
moeders, en op afstand door de politiekers.
  "Vaarwel, schoon lief, de tambour slaat,
said, "Sire, we are all willing to exert our utmost care and industry to
glimmende gezichten knikten elkaar mild toe onder het gaslicht.
contemplate and admire Aladdin's place, his amazement was unbounded to
for her to eat and drink.
Then the eldest looked at his bed, and, seeing that it looked tumbled,
forbidden me."
window, perceived him and instantly told her mistress. The princess, who
Snepvangers was lid van den Dierentuin, waar zij regelmatig de concerten
forward, and found all their beds in the same condition. But when the
children and the mob.
sultan, whose principal jeweller undertaking to speak for the rest,
This proclamation inspired Aladdin with eager desire to see the
last morsel with his children.
breadcrumbs all along the road we came, and they will easily point out
hall, you will find a door which opens into a garden, planted with fine
that she knew not what to do. At first she declared she would not go to
the ring, and not of the lamp." "I command thee, then," replied Aladdin,
raad zou vragen, zaten zij in de schemering te staren naar de poort van
instantly opened, and oh, how glad his sister was to see him safely
night married to the son of the grand vizier. Bring them both hither to
retired.
At last he spoke to the sisters, and asked: "To whom does this beautiful
his hand to her, and said, "Wilt thou go with me to my castle and be my
Snow-white had no suspicion, so she placed herself before the old woman
Notaris waardeerde in hem zeer bijzondere hoedanigheden, kieschheid en
done, the old woman said, "We will bake some bread first; I have made
then showed him the largest and finest mosques, carried him to the khans
in two, till Snow-white began to breathe a little, and after a time was
Marieken ging naar de dertig.
Eyes was not more skilful; with all her efforts she could not draw the
time, and they will not be able to find their way home as they did
rookwolkjes na.
--Och, kind!
Kostelijk goed, niets van dat ondegelijk mode-goed. Het platgestreken
een schoonen spaarpot hadden, eigen huizen en bouwgrond, stadsloten en
men, alles wel beschouwd, nog van het leven profiteeren. Het werd middag
boomken, begoten het magere gras en de bloemen, de viooltjes, de
which astonished him. The genie helped him to dress, and when he had
powder. On drinking it he will instantly fall asleep, and we will obtain
of water touched his lips he became a fawn. How the little sister wept
Aladdin.
the same frugality as before, and it may easily be supposed that the
why, but my heart is drawn towards this beautiful child, and I feel I
the son of the vizier retired to the bedchamber prepared for them. No
Dat was nu rentenieren! Men kon tenminste zijn vijf zinnen eens
they thought it would be best to put the two meals together; yet, after
 voorspoed en geluk. Bedrukt spraken zij weer maar hoopvol van de
them made a false step and stumbled. This shook the coffin, and caused
naamplaat. Binnen hielden Madame, Marieken en de werkvrouw met
Not long after, the seven dwarfs came home, and they were terribly
half a loaf left, and when that is gone all love will be at an end. The
find that it could nowhere be seen. He could not comprehend how so large
magnificence, replied without hesitation to the words of Aladdin's
ashamed of it, I despair of his ever coming to any good. For my part, I
zich wellustig tegen de leuning van zijn stoel en zag diepzinnig de
After these words, Aladdin's mother prostrated herself a second time;
like number of black mutes, in two files, with their officers at their
bijeenrapen meende Snepvangers. Geen verlangen meer naar de stad, slechts
judgment and honour. The Jew was somewhat confounded at this plain
Eyes, come here." Then came Two Eyes, quite comforted, from the empty
vischnet met de schelvisschen, besmeurd door het slijk. God! kon hij
and Aladdin. When the contract had been drawn, the sultan asked Aladdin
kon dus steeds instemmen. Het dienen had haar iets onderdanigs op het
waardeeren. Zoo werd men wijnkenner en fijnproever. Maar nu was het dubbel
A few days after this, the huntsmen were again in the forest; and when
Presently the wise woman stood again before her, and said, "Little Two
Snepvangers kende slechts
travel with the prince, and the king was so pleased with his son's
and let the woman in, quite forgetting the advice of the dwarfs. After
sultan, he dismissed the genie, and immediately mounting his charger,
The princess obeyed to the utmost her husband's instructions. She
to take a horoscope and ascertain his brother's proceedings. He, as well
levensinrichting, werd overbluft en stormenderhand gewonnen.
Aladdin's mother brought the china dish, when he took the jewels out of
woman would go out to the little cage, and say: "Hansel, stick out your
the greatest rogue even among the Jews. I will give you the full worth
the two purses in which he had kept them, and placed them in order,
we shall be able to do nothing. Take hold of the ring, and lift it up;
onbezorgd haar toekomst tegemoet zien. De _Zoutkeet_ konden zij
"Remain here, children, and rest, while I go to help your father, who is
When Aladdin gave these commands to the genie, the sun was set. The next
  Maar ieder meisken krijgt heur stuk!"
secure this wonderful lamp if he had not known its value to exceed that
fatigues. When he came to the capital of China, he took a lodging at a
stilte en afzondering moede, want zij had de minste bezigheid. In den tuin
Redevoeringen prezen zijne liefdadigheid, zijn zin voor kunst en muziek,
dochter van een kruidenier, bleek zeer goed aangelegd om de zaak te
te zitten konden zij van de mooie dagen niet genieten. In de stad kon men
paternal love, and therefore you ought to forgive the excesses to which
palace, and you shall choose what may answer your purpose."
Aladdin seized as a prisoner of state. On his son-in-law being brought
He bounded off as she spoke, scarcely stopping to listen, for it was so
He did not run away, but stayed close to her; and at last she said,
delighted that they would not awaken her, but left her to sleep as long
devoted to mutual explanations of all that had happened, the sultan
my father's castle and be my wife."
informed more particularly who that holy woman was, and what sort of
sultaness. I want also ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses; go,
--Ja.
thee as thy slave, and the slave of all those that have that ring on
's Morgens vroeg stond Snepvangers op den drempel der woning zijn pijp te
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
The next day the magician found Aladdin playing in another part of the
The third cried, "Some one has taken part of my bread."
but before he gave her any answer, asked her what she had brought tied
restored Aladdin to his favour, and expressed his regret for the
palace, divided into three great halls. In each of these you will see
him, and gave him such a box on the ear that he knocked him down.
to his sister, "Cheer up, Grethel; I dare say we shall find our way home
--Dat zoekt allemaal 'n vrijer, meende Madame Craen, dat loopt in de
daken, maar 't was hen mee gevallen, hun eenige zoon hadden zij in
Now it so happened that shortly after Aladdin had been transported by
she wore were to her as iron bands full of coals of fire, in which she
hunter's horn."
you something to do which will prevent you from ever being hungry again.
his acquaintance among the jewellers, he came to know that the fruits
the largest and best furnished shops, asked the druggist if he had a
any great advance in their work. They came again several times for more,
the palace would be ready for her reception in the evening. She went,
Benijder was hij van hen die eens leefden van kleine winstjes, zijn
provide for himself."
one night, excepting little Two Eyes. She supposed it had grown up from
rid of that odious child."
een last, men moest het verzorgen ook als men maar liefst bij de kachel
zenden!
"She will be devoured by wild beasts," he said to himself. But the
endeavoured to conform to the conditions you were pleased to impose."
tegenstelling van mama, hij was een klein vetzakje, een joviaal
--Och!
ceremonies were at last brought to a conclusion, and the princess and
with fatigue, and they fell fast asleep. When they awoke it was dark
nederig en treurig, zoo 'n goede man... Het buitenleven is toch niet zoo
and happy. Then his sister fastened the string of rushes to his collar,
success. I have the slaves of the lamp and of the ring to help me, and
a clever little thing. She managed very well, and kept the house quite
overjoyed that they ran into each other's arms, and kissed each other
--Dat is geen beletsel.... Wij zijn met veel goede katholieken, maar wij
voor hij er aan dacht naar de vischmarkt te gaan. Madame zou zuur zien nu
gevallen. Een eenige gelegenheid bood zich aan om een bloeiende
his commands.
me immediately they retire to their bedchamber."
verkochten alles en nog wat, verleenden geen krediet, lieten niet poffen.
soon arrived at the mouth of the cave, where the African magician
Then said the first, "Who has been sitting in my little chair?"
en een kalmer uitzicht bood. Marieken liep neuriënd en bedrijvig rond en
lose it if he failed.
expected, and told her son with much joy the condescending answer she
dance till she fell dead on the floor, a sad example of envy and
spite of all her remonstrances.
she could find no rest till she had tried to destroy it.
glass, stones of inestimable value; but he had the prudence not to
Aladdin shut the door, and going directly to the dead body of the
Aladdin, having thus loaded himself with riches of which he knew not the
under an empty cask, which stood near the tree, and several of the
The slave returned, laughing so heartily that the princess rebuked her.
in search of water.
and sisters could not endure her. They said to her, "You are not better
Do not be afraid that the liquor will spoil your clothes, for it is not
--Wie zijn wij?
blijven avondmalen. Men was reeds als thuis tusschen oude vertrouwde
by my diligence and exactness of the ardent and sincere desire I have to
de grauwe lucht en de regen stemden te moedeloos. Het pluimvee werd
Having ascertained the place where the hermitage of this holy woman was,
Aladdin, while he paid all respect to the sultan, won by his affable
more I know, the more I admire you."
her finger, and three drops of blood fell into the snow. The red spots
"do not be surprised at your never having seen me all the time you have
talk thus."
They persisted, however, in declaring that the tree was their own
throne, and retired. On her way home, she laughed within herself at her
in danger, and told her not to show herself, for her stepmother would
Den fieren Vlaamschen leeuw,
multitude by asking everybody he met if they had seen his palace, or
"Ah yes," replied the maiden, "I would willingly; but I cannot leave my
huisje gebouwd onder het houten beschot der dakgoot, wat Madame als een
The African magician, observing in Aladdin's countenance something which
"Oh! where am I?" she cried.
set it down. "Remove the bridegroom," said Aladdin to the genie, "and
sultan's palace. When she came to the gates, the grand vizier, the other
brought out, and the jewellers took a great quantity, particularly those
from his throne ordered that the princess's attendants should come and
Early in the morning, before the children were awake, she was up,
zijn roode, gladgeschoren heerenknechtentronie niets verried.
gebruiken. Dat aardige uitspanningsken had hij door zijn vriend leeren
stone which had closed the mouth of the staircase moved into its place,
his paternal home forever, and went to the palace in the same pomp as on
verdiende, trof er zijn vriend aan, den verdierenpikker. Samen keuvelden
closed upon thin air.
officers and slaves, habited according to their rank and the services to
him, raised the stone with ease, and laid it on one side.
menschen wakker, maar de hond wekte hen ook vroeg genoeg. En duiventil
telden de eieren, zagen de jonge duiven groeien, hun duivelshaar
left unfinished) be enriched with diamonds, rubies, and emeralds, so
"De Wildeman", "Het Schuttershof", "De Oude Sint-Jan", "De Gouden Kroon",
"What!" said the person whom he addressed, "have you never seen or heard
sultan returned to his own apartment, he said to his grand vizier; "I
in sorrow about his children.
doghond te hooren aanslaan. Madame vond het dagelijksch leven wel een
out from under the cask, and they rolled on till they reached the feet
te genieten van dit voorsmaakje der toekomstige glorie. Hij trakteerde
stepped forward and pretended to put her head in the oven.
handsomely. Never let her appear before my eyes again."
mother was dead, and their father had married again a woman who was most
When they awoke it was the third morning since they had left their
het hem niet ten kwade want zij wist dat het buitenkansje hem niets
spacious garden; but above all things, provide a safe treasure-house,
"We will go now," he said, "and get away as soon as we can from this
De familie Snepvangers genoot de ongewone ontroeringen van nieuwe
dear wife?"
--Een toekomstig gemeenteraadslid die geen bad in huis heeft... de
den ouden eed en ga naar de kerk.
"Oh, mother," said the boy, "I can see my little white cat sitting on
te breken, en de fruitboomen droegen bloesem. De lucht was meestal
window which several workmen had been so long about was finished in so
khan. His magic art soon revealed to him that Aladdin was the person who
den President gaan kiezen.
absoluut, verklaarde hij behagelijk.
sister on his lap, but she said, "No, we shall be too heavy for the kind
forgiveness." "Well," replied the sultan, "I will forgive you, be it
coffin was placed on their shoulders, and they carried it away, followed
get fat.
in the world, he made the best of his way home. When he got within his
would purchase the shop. He then led him out at one of the gates of the
dear fawn: he must go with me wherever I am."
drogist, een mager jongmensch met bleek gelaat. Hij had een scherpen neus,
Mijnheer dweepte met de slaapkamers boven, zoo ruim en frisch, daar kon
glory of finishing this hall." "I take your intention kindly," said the
The goldsmith took a pair of scales, weighed the dish, and assured him
began his march, and though he never was on horseback before, appeared
his apartment, attended by the grand vizier; the other viziers and
six women slaves to attend her, as richly dressed at least as any of the
--Wij? De bond der neringdoenden!... Wij willen ons woordje te zeggen
to-night I will watch in the nursery." As soon as the figure came in and
You have only to say to your own goat:
to be tired: "Come, nephew," said he, "you must be weary as well as I;
but first show ms the house where you live."
as he could into his breast, offered him his basket, and bade him choose
you so much, I will take it out of your sight, and put it where I may
quiet, buried it in the ground outside the house-door, as the wise woman
wij daarmede aanvangen, en waar zullen wij het zetten?
gold in the world."
determined, if possible, to prevent the marriage.
he was very hungry. Grethel seated herself on the doorstep, and began
haste to the capital of China, where, on his arrival, he took up his
When she heard this she was so terrified that the blood rushed to her
te Borgerhout. Na korten tijd waren er straten getrokken en de gronden
betrekkingen en verrassingen. Het leven had gebeurtenissen. De politiek
Den vooravond van hun vertrek zaten zij boven, voor het raam van het
confidence the inhabitants reposed in each other. By this means the
"He shall remain with you as long as you live," replied the king, "and I
stood a most wonderful tree, with leaves of silver and apples of gold
suspicion of wrong. Hansel, who found the cake on the roof taste very
genie, the faithful slave of the lamp, to the great amazement and alarm
profitable use of it, without making any great show, and exciting the
hesp!
maintain them some time.
an old lamp which stood upon a shelf in my robing-chamber."
Aladdin found so many dried sticks, that he soon collected a great heap.
that the house was built of gingerbread, and ornamented with sweet cakes
speculateurs en de notarissen. Snepvangers kon geduldig luisteren naar
him safe, the fawn sprang over the bushes and disappeared.
come again and fetch you."
--Schelvisch, onderlijnde Marieken.
trappen, kochten konijnen. Maar het vijvertje stond altijd droog en de
zij dachten aan het volk dat zich ginder, onder den lichtgloed der stad,
Gedwee volgden de mannen, doch staakten geen oogenblik het onderhoud.
geboren Verstraete!
room and take up her baby and nurse it. Then she told the king, and he
Boeykens mocht niet baten, en de arme man vond geen genoegen meer in de
opportunity of a full view of her face.
me forty days, and if in that time I cannot restore it, I will offer my
Then she related to them all that had happened; how her stepmother had
As the sultan, who had been informed of their approach, had given orders
wandelen, maar toch!...
werd nog een glas gedronken, hier een, daar een, dan ging Mijnheer zijn
stevigen loodgieter en zijn gade. De President voerde het gezelschap in
op 't stadhuis, en als we gevraagd worden op de feestjes...
Met kluisters en geschreeuw...
was too long, another too short; so she tried them all till she came to
of this hall alone is sufficient to show I was deceived."
time, she decided what to do. First, she painted her face, and whitened
When he was old enough to learn a trade, his father took him into his
that it was his son-in-law's palace. Joy and gladness succeeded to
possesses the ring on thy finger; I, and the other slaves of that ring."
embraced her with tears of joy; and the princess, on her side, afforded
said, "This is not well, nephew; you must think of helping yourself, and
The first and second times that she did so, the sisters did not notice
gevoelens van onrust, neen zij benijdde haar vriendinnekens niet die
wonen.
obey you; but among us all we cannot furnish jewels enough for so great
  "Little goat, when you are able,
years absent from this country, which is my native place, as well as my
and Aladdin said, "I beg of you, princess, to tell me what is become of
hand en zijn paraplu onder den arm gekneld trok hij nu terug naar het
to become so beautiful as herself, so she stepped up to her mirror and
Then she cried quickly, "Stay, brother, stay! do not drink, or you will
dorp.
his fondest expectations, he said, "Genie, there is one thing wanting, a
of a tree, and singing so beautifully that they stood still to listen.
men ginder, in de stad niet voelen mocht de teistering van den zomer.
--Wij willen juist geen advokaten, maar mannen van ons... geen
menige dure sigaar gerookt. Wat Mijnheer bijbleef was het vreemd geval
well again, and now they had nothing to fear, for their wicked
obliged to do as the wicked witch told her.
and wicked magician would not have undertaken so long a journey to
bride and bridegroom.
den President van den Bond en aan den verdierenpikker die de glazen
After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on
So they went out, and wandered over fields and meadows the whole day
moest opschenken, vertelde Madame Craen haar levensloop. Zij waren
own," replied the grand vizier, "that the present is worthy of the
alive. "I must think of something else," she said to herself, "to get
even geheimzinnig als het gekomen was. Mijnheer begon nu weer iets te
uncle's permission, he resolved to gather some of every sort. Having
Eyes did; for poor little Two Eyes, thinking she was asleep, said her
--Het leven is schoon, mijmerde de verdierenpikker.
When it became quite dark, he pulled the lamp out of his breast and
night, and poor Grethel began to cry, and said, "Oh, how shall we get
leave of his uncle to go home; the magician would not let him go by
the forest? we thought you were never coming back," But their father was
to death. The decree caused so much discontent among the people, whose
stuivertje won Snepvangers als getuige, met onder allerlei akten zijn naam
them:
to draw up a contract of marriage between the Princess Buddir al Buddoor
you will find it will come easily." Aladdin did as the magician bade
sultan may not be so busy."
they were obliged to beg their bread from door to door.
since his cries could not be heard. He descended to the bottom of the
of him."
the door of the bath, she took off her veil, and gave Aladdin an
The sixth cried, "And who has been cutting with my knife?"
belangen der kleine burgers en neringdoenden! Wij strijden tegen
find the appearances to declare that Aladdin, instead of dying in the
verheugen mochten in de gunst van den Notaris, maar waren tevens overtuigd
uitgewerkt kastje mee. Was er regen op handen, dan kwam er een paterken
goedheid.
  "Want Sint-Nicolaas dat is een man
I will eat the other."
could not see very well; but she had a very keen scent, as wild animals
"Two Eyes." The youngest had three eyes, two like her second sister, and
zwaluwen die niets ontzagen, en over de muggen die hen zoo lastig vielen.
"We will have one more chase to-morrow," said the king, "and discover
summoned the genie as usual, who professed his allegiance. "Genie," said
acquaintance with us, and, who knows? we may get husbands after all."
genoot Snepvangers. Later las hij de gazet, terwijl zijn vrouw kousen
brought; and the next day Aladdin, who could not bear the thoughts of
station, maar hij wandelde zoo gelukzalig traag dat hij zijn trein
brother not having received as usual his annual communication, prepared
the lamp, which he carried about him, rubbed it, and presently the genie
In one of the large and rich cities of China, there once lived a tailor
There were once a brother and sister who loved each other dearly; their
he may wait long enough!"
nought. This night the grand vizier's son is to marry the Princess
Thirsty as he was, the brother conquered his desire to drink at her
rage and terror were so great that she stood still and could not move
original mean condition."
compliments to his daughter, when the princess could no longer conceal
oude knechten, van de geburen. Daarna gingen zij vaarwel zeggen aan de
princess; but I beg of your majesty to grant me three months before you
for them to be admitted, they met with no obstacle, but went into the
honour of being the sultan's son-in-law, kept silence on his part, and
to this display. The princess, dazzled to see so much riches collected
heart, for she knew that after all she had done Snow-white was still
as if he was looking back at his home.
of what you have to sell, or I will direct you to other merchants who
hoorde men nog immer het meewarig-kalm gelui. Beneden zag Madame een
was retired from the world, and of the miracles she wrought. As he
in their hands. The old woman shook her head at them, and said, "Ah, you
De blikken petroleumkan liet zij keer op keer tegen den muuur rammelen.
him, and said, "My lad, I imagine that you have something to sell to the
palace to the capital of China."
off a piece of the gingerbread, he began to eat with all his might, for
menschen moesten het weten.
more richly and magnificently robed than he had ever been himself, and
appeared. "Genie," said Aladdin, "I ordered thee to leave one of the
uitgestaan, zei Madame tot rouwbeklag.
aanstoot, geen stoornis in den dienst. Beiden waren zeer degelijk en
En ze pakten er eenigen op het weerzien, spraken van vroeger dagen,
afzondering, de eenzaamheid zouden lijden. Marieke peinsde daarbij
op wijn de afgevaardigden die zich in het salon en de eetkamer verdrongen,
looked so beautiful in the white snow that the queen thought to herself:
Zondag, zij waren toen zes-en-dertig jaar geworden, was de beslissing
six windows, and let the lattices of these (except one, which must be
gelijken waren, waarvoor hij nu zijn hoed afnam zooals voor de rijke
onafhankelijke mannen noodig om te strijden tegen bazars en cooperatieven,
for our dinner." "Mother," replied Aladdin, "keep your cotton for
to close two of her eyes, and they slept, but not the third. In fact,
Na dit vekwikkelijk gesprek keerde Snepvangers mijmerend huiswaarts.
fiercely.
Er kwam het deftigste volk van de stad, zooals de stokoude familie
oil, and the lamp will be dry as soon as it is thrown out."
came to herself, and related all that had passed.
Marieken te wekken. De dames kwamen gekleed beneden, want na het ontbijt
schemerde nu rossige lampschijn achter de vitrien, en ook in _De Hoop_,
also in its murmuring waters, the sister heard the words--
nobody shall hurt you."
     More beautiful than thou."
it; but when they found it happened every day, they said one to the
colours."
vrienden. De oude heeren zaten in hun hemdsmouwen, en hun hoogroode,
Buddoor. Let its materials be made of nothing less than porphyry,
Zeer verlegen stond hij recht, onthutst raapte hij zijn vischnet op, liep
On his return he had recourse to an operation of geomancy to find out
"the omission was by design, since I wished that you should have the
joy, that the tree had followed her.
praatjesmakers, maar mannen waarop wij rekenen kunnen.
to wear, and as much to eat and drink as she wished, and as she grew up
dead, she felt quite satisfied there was no one in the world now likely
to wear, and gave her only the pieces that were left to eat, and did
schik met de keuken en het schommelhuis. Allen waren vol minachting voor
clean and in order. And while they were gone to the mountains to find
the slave of all those who have that lamp in their hands; I, and the
morning conveyed to the palace of the sultan. Scarcely had they been
of ever seeing light again, and in an expectation of passing from the
en die telden zij niet. Karnaval was nog wel de triestigste dag, want
CHAPTER IV
in happiness and safety.
than common folks, with your two eyes; you don't belong to us."
van koopjes en buurtnieuws, Marieken verslond de feuilleton en zalig
these conditions I am ready to bestow the princess my daughter upon him;
One Eye climbed up, but when she tried to catch a branch and pluck one
over, that they might watch for any signs of decay, and they wrote in
gesnik en gejammer, keek niemand aan, zag strak en wezenloos voor zich
Om in breederen kring de aandacht op "zijnen" Bond te vestigen liet hij
when she had finished she said:
good intentions; and after having exhorted Aladdin to render himself
informed the sultan, who exclaimed, "It must be Aladdin's palace, which
had been prescribed. The genie professed his obedience to the owner of
glass coffin, but showed not the least signs of decay. It seemed as if
waistband. But as he came down from the terrace, seeing it was perfectly
that the king would then marry her daughter; but on the king speaking to
show their joy according to their ability. The streets were crowded with
allen kant van het driehoekig plein, bloeide het avondlicht. Boven de
had taught her:
as necessity pressed, to the Jew, for the same money; who, after the
of pebbles. Then the stepmother led them a long way into the forest.
Early the next morning, when the sultan, according to custom, went to
she could not judge whether they were silver or any other metal, and the
hunters, he could not rest. "Oh, dear sister, I must go once more; it
Zoohaast alles in 't reine was herbegon het zwoegen en het geld verdienen
wijnverkooping gaan bijwonen waar men kosteloos kon proeven en kaas
in zijn toekomstdroomen te verdiepen.
Snepvangers zou hij in dienst nemen als vaste getuige en ook voor verdere
cups. All these he placed upon a carpet and disappeared; this was done
handfuls among the people as they went to the sultan's palace. The six
The little dwarfs, when they came home in the evening, found poor
The widow, after his promises of kindness to her son, no longer doubted
proclaimed, commanding the people to shut up their shops and houses, and
would have preferred figs, or grapes, or pomegranates; but as he had his
As soon as the king caught sight of him, he said to the huntsmen,
himself came in, and was surprised to find her, whom he knew as his
unfastened the door, and slipped out The moon shone brightly, and the
and slept till morning.
But his sister wept, and begged him not to go: "If they kill you, dear
sent her into the wood with the hunter, who had spared her life, and
Was dat nu het schoon rentenieren op den buiten? Zij dachten terug aan
you: those pieces of glass, which I got from the trees in the garden of
It vanished in the twinkling of an eye; and then Two Eyes woke up One
   But over the mountains is Snow-white free,
to see an old man with a basket on his arm, full of fine new lamps,
you shall always find me ready to keep my word."
kwam wel eens voor dat men in den vroegen avond gewaar werd dat de lampen
hij wou en zou. Aan de koffietafel kreeg hij den gelukkigen inval.
good, broke off another large piece, and Grethel had just taken out a
be out in the heat of the sun, she began to feel tired, and as little
horizont achter de boerderijen aan den overkant, speelde zij troosteloos
very cold here."
girdles, and the brilliancy of the aigrettes of precious stones in their
so beautifully, has been killed by my mother, and I shall have again to
Eén sloot zich bijzonder bij hem aan, een bleeke man met neerhangende
gold trays, and such precious stones to fill them? It is altogether out
purse and gave it him, though it was but the sixtieth part of the worth
Zondagen, wanneer bovenmeid en koetsier op gang waren, zaten zij gezellig
Snow-white thanked him so sweetly, and was out of sight in a few
bezocht hij "De Koning van Spanje", "Het Zwart Paard", "De Paardenwei",
advice. Go home, and ask your sister to give you the inside of the
When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, and shone brightly into
versierd met kolommetjes en grillig loofwerk, op het balcon prijkte een
aanporren tot werken, en hard zijn tegenover het schamel volksken uit de
toen hij gewaar werd dat M. Peeters deze krotten volstrekt noodig had om
Konijn gegeten. Antoine bleef in Mariekens nabijheid aan de piano. Madame
te wachten stond. Was dat niet een ouwe vriend, de verdierenpikker,
At last they were so tired that their poor little legs could carry them
"Dear brother, do not drink," she began; but she was too late, for her
"Brother, I pray you, do not drink of this brook; you will be changed
streets from his companions. This course he followed till he was fifteen
delightful for him to breathe the fresh air and be free again.
To satisfy the queen, he took part of the inside of a young fawn, which
zoeken tusschen het loof; de aardappelen waren als knikkers en weinig
her knees and wept, and said, "Ah, dear hunter, leave me my life; I will
her eyes. Once, in the midst of her sorrow she looked up, and saw a
--Waar is onze tijd gebleven! treurde de loodgieter.
white pebble stones which lay before the cottage door glistened like new
not permitted to take it himself, but must receive it as a voluntary
huntsman had seen enough to make him full of wonder, when he returned
herself on a mound, and wept most bitter tears.
the palace, where the ceremony is to be solemnised."
"Princess," said Aladdin, interrupting her, "you have explained all by
The African magician stayed no longer near the palace, nor cried any
answer when any one presented itself, crying out, "Here is a finer
Now it happened that the stepmother of Snow-white was invited, among
son.
een badkuip en zag zich weerkaatst in den ovalen spiegel van een lavabo.
The next day the magician called for the twelve lamps, paid the man his
mother, emboldened by the sight of these rich jewels, and fearful lest
of te koop_.
words, and said, "Dear sister, I will wait till we come to a spring." So
of a good breakfast as myself; when we have done, I will tell you."
enchanted forest."
kwam uit de kostschool. In den beginne scheen het vreemd. Zij hadden
"What!" cried the woman, "are you afraid it is poisoned? Look here now,
this mystery."
of Snow-white. But at the birth of the little child the queen died.
it had just come from the kitchen. Then little Two Eyes sat down and
him to an entertainment, which he most willingly accepted. At the close
ernstig, en alle aardsche zotternij was hun oogenschijnlijk vreemd.
myself." And he begged so hard that at last she reluctantly consented.
door, and he could not open it. When he went back to his bed he told his
this wedding at all, but she felt it impossible to rest until she had
acclamations, especially every time the six slaves who carried the
Madame Snepvangers zat in een ziekenstoel, Marieke op een tentoongesteld
her ugly daughter, whom she tried to make the king believe was his wife,
said to his wife, who was not the mother of his children, but their
discharged itself by a lion's mouth of bronze into a basin, pretending
surprises me is, that a hall of this magnificence should be left with
ongetwijfeld de paterkens in bruine pijen hun avondgebed onder het schamel
marriage to be cancelled, and all the festivities, which were yet to
carry the trays into their mistress's apartment, whither he went himself
Snepvangers waagde zich niet buiten. Met Nieuwjaar bracht de postbode
farmer's wife eat one half that she could not any longer resist, but
hearts weep together." At last, tired out with hunger and sorrow, and
mager. 's Zondags zaten zij vooraan in de kerk tusschen de notabelen van
sultan's anger, she told him faithfully the errand on which her son had
As soon as the sun was risen, the stepmother came and woke the two
seven little knives and forks, and seven mugs. By the wall stood seven
Aladdin supped with his mother as was their wont, and then went to his
sister again to let him go.
opened before by enchantment, was now shut by the same means. He then
vriend die ik jaren ken en die mij den weg gewezen heeft naar den Bond!...
"I know what to do, husband," she replied; "early to-morrow morning we
she always stands up from the beginning to the breaking up of the
het dorp, de pastoor had hen met een bezoek vereerd, bakker, beenhouwer
geschenkjes, zag steeds kans om overjaarsche waren in de handen te stoppen
     Turned to a stag will be."
When Aladdin had examined every portion of the palace, and particularly
near his throne. He shortly after led him amidst the sounds of trumpets,
arms, saying, "You are my own beloved wife, as beautiful as ever."
On the morning after the restoration of Aladdin's palace, the sultan was
eyes, "My poor brother! how unhappy am I, not to have come soon enough
schoonen hof, en zijn vruchten, en zijn bloemen!
So the children remained alone till mid-day, and then Grethel shared her
begeleiden het deuntje met schel-vinnig gefluit, de meisjes deden hun best
Na zoo'n oogenblikken van zwakheid probeerden zij tegenover elkaar den
sultan's palace. They told the strange tidings to the grand vizier, who
It happened that while all three sisters were standing under the tree
their sleep, with their round rosy cheeks, she muttered to herself,
long before she came to herself. "Mother," said Aladdin, "be not afraid:
nog veiliger. Het beest, een grimmige doghond, kon huilen en blaffen dat
said Aladdin, "let us sit down and eat; for you have almost as much need
slaughtered goat, and then go and bury it in the ground in front of the
Madame was ontroerd door het onverwachte.
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
the world besides, dear little Snow-white, and you must come with me to
show it to the goldsmith; who at first sight saw that it was made of the
So when Two Eyes started with her goat, One Eye said to her, "I am going
kloostermuur in het donker, 't Was Maandag, en in _De Hoop_ begon het
than she began to lace so fast and pull so tight that Snow-white could
--Och, wij zijn ook nog kleppers, blufte Snepvangers, en klopte zijn zich
posture until he bade her rise, which she had no sooner done, than he
that the magician was her husband's brother. She thanked him for his
koffietafel plaats nam. Terwijl men boterkoekjes en krentenbroodjes naar
Jaren lang hadden zij zoo hun leven gesleten, gierig gespaard hun loon
steps, with a design to get into the palace, but the door, which was
in zeer bijzondere aangelegenheden waren zij te bewegen eens over en
Het leven was zeer fraai en redelijk.
neringdoende!...
made me; but I cannot marry the princess my daughter for three months;
said, "Be comforted, dear little sister, and sleep in peace; heaven will
Aladdin's mother listened with surprise to what her son told her; but
The African magician regarded not their scoffs, hootings, or all they
turned, than he was gone for that day, Mustapha chastised him, but
no farther; so they laid themselves down under a tree and went to sleep.
Oh! how the old witch did howl, it was quite horrible to hear her. But
standing by their beds; and when she saw how beautiful they looked in
breadcrumbs, for the numerous birds which inhabited the trees of the
and goldsmiths attended; upon which he returned to the hall, and showed
dat de zachtmoedige, vredelievende Snepvangers in geweldige herbergtwisten
Veertien dagen later ontving men het tegenbezoek, dat even prettig afliep.
the roof of the house, and I am sure she is crying for me."
does nothing but idle away his time in the streets, as you saw him,
several indifferent matters; and then the magician took his leave and
--Maar Papa toch!
Snow-white still lived. So she sat and pondered over these facts,
tafelspringers zijn wij niet gediend, wij willen ernstige mannen!
thought that he had any hand in the strange adventures that befell the
--Lid wil ik wel worden... maar de rest blijft onder ons... ik kan dat
--Wel, Mama toch, op de kamer boven de keuken.
weten om de ruzie te vermijden in zijn huishouden, wie weet en
come to a final resolution. I hope, before that time, my son, whom you
for new ones?" He repeated this so often, walking backward and forward
would come quickly and devour them?"
foot of the throne, untied it, and presented it to the sultan.
on your bed, dear fawn, and the wound will soon heal, if you rest your
kon hij plots zijn vijf zinnen bijeenrapen! Hij had wel kunnen jubelen van
in front of the palace, that the princess, who was then in the hall with
carpet which covered the platform of the throne, and remained in that
enter into discourse with Aladdin's mother. "My good sister," said he,
President--belangen te verdedigen.
learnt from his magic books the secret and the value of this wonderful
gather some more of the bright pebbles to let fall as he walked, that
zonnebrand, waarin de villa, naakt en onbeschut, de hitte stond op te
might not know she was away.
to express the joy of both at seeing each other, after so cruel a
of her husband, changed the conversation, and turning toward her son,
--Dat weet ik juist niet, zuchtte zij: wij moeten uitzien naar 'n
de klamme kalk en versch geschilderd houtwerk, vonden zij de oude meid
took him aside, and pulling out the plate, asked him if he would buy it.
each attended by a great many footmen. Aladdin's mother asked the oil
katterig, wat zij toeschreef aan de gebakken aardappelen en de te vette
naar zijn geldbeugel. Ook weg. God wat beteekende dit nu! Zijn blikken
eaten as much as they liked, they got up, and pursued their walk through
when he had overtaken him, made a proposal to him to change clothes,
in een kleinen moestuin, al was het nog maar een mager gewin, al kwam
heremiet te rekenen, een jonge vent, die wat verder alleen in een huisje
This offer induced Aladdin to pull his plate from tinder his vest and
really before her; it had a white cloth and plates, and knives and
The princess, in anticipation of the success of her scheme, had so
  dan bij de beste vrienden."
een pint op drinken; maar één ding zeg ik u: met snotters en
people, and was named little Two Eyes.
the evil eye of the old woman who was watching her. Presently she said,
frightened that he would have run away, but the magician caught hold of
den tuin tot zij piepaf waren, en op het terras gingen zij dan zitten
and when she felt how thin it was, she wondered very much why he did not
grass to tire Three Eyes, and at last she said, "Let us sit down here
other guests, to the wedding-feast. Before she left her house she stood
zelfvoldaanheid. Marieken, naar de mode gekleed, ging aan zijn
for you to be seen." Then they pushed the poor girl, in great haste,
appearance of the genie; and said to him, "But, son, what have we to do
where the king's beautiful horse waited for him.
had scherpe woorden. Mijnheer zorgde dan dat het hondje niet onder de
to give it to him till he was out of the cave. The African magician,
So they went to the house, and little Two Eyes again left the scraps on
took it in her hand, and led him away from the cottage in the wood to
The good-natured duck came near the bank as Grethel spoke, so close
little while, and there shall no harm happen to you." She seized them
een zwaar gouden ketting op den buik en had dan zijn hoogen zijden hoed.
Aladdin had made him a present of, which they soon used, without making
the carpet, prostrated themselves, touching the carpet with their
their arms crossed over their breasts.
cruel magician. Aladdin slept very soundly till late the next morning,
father's brother. He cried and kissed me when I told him my father was
sizes, piled up to the top with money, ranged all round the chamber. The
from him the unhappy treatment she had been subject to, and told him all
As soon as Aladdin found that their provisions were again expended, he
fawn; and, going up to the little door, knocked and said softly, "Dear
praatlustige vrouw ontving. De serenade was haar stokpaardje. Haar man
And she climbed up, and, without any trouble, broke off a branch with
mother, wrapt up in a piece of silver tissue, and presented them all to
and make haste."
"I am called Snow-white," she replied.
money in the moonlight, and which Hansel had dropped as he walked,
    "The wind, the wind,
meedoet.... Ge zijt een onafhankelijk man, een rentenier, en zoo'n mannen
helder, en de zon scheen zoo plezierig over de wereld. Zij schenen
plucked them one after another, till she carried down her own little
in all her rich dress before the magic mirror to admire her own
's Anderendaags was Marieken zeer teruggetrokken, en Madame voelde zich
husband felt heavy at heart, for he thought it was better to share the
of her? She is the admiration of the whole town, for her fasting, her
--Ja, dat hebben wij ook ondervonden... en wij waren naar buiten gaan
Marieken werd bij familie, boerenmenschen in den Polder, uitbesteed.
palace, attended by his grand vizier and all the lords of his court. The
who performed, according to the custom of the country, singing at the
and make all the dispatch you can."
LIEFDE EN ANDERE ONRUSTIGHEID.
the beginning to the rising of the divan; what business brings you
kamers van tabakrook doortrokken waren. Zoo kwam Goede Vrijdag.
een oud zwak. Met verteedering dronken zij op elkaars gezondheid, en dat
sell a lamp which may be so serviceable both to you and me. That false
Aladdin, had a younger brother, who was as skilful a magician as
side, which, together with the illuminations of the sultan's and
diamonds, rubies, and emeralds composing the windows? But what most
stag's foot wounded and bleeding. She quickly washed off the blood, and,
cause of it. I was foolish enough to change the old lamp for a new one,
sultan consented with pleasure, rose up immediately, and, preceded by
vorigen avond, kleedde zich dan voor de wandeling. Zijn barometer gunde
the wicked woman thought was poor little Snow-white, and was overjoyed
beautiful woman in the land, her jealousy gave her no peace. After a
with a grace the most experienced horseman might envy. The innumerable
Vasten, werd het electrisch licht opgedraaid. Hun oogen knipperden even,
name of "Three Eyes."
of the genie of the wonderful lamp!
him to a merchant, who sold all sorts of clothes for different ages and
toevallige speculaties of door wat hen eerst een strop had toegeschenen.
--Maar wij hebben niks noodig, de dakgoten zijn in orde!...
the hall with the four-and-twenty windows, and found it far to exceed
beautiful, till she reached the age of seven years, and then people
Dat volksken kom altijd in den laten avond, morde zij, dan pas worden
glossy."
and thought they were in heaven.
not forget to say what I told you, when you return this evening."
will never ask you to forsake him."
as soon as she returned home she went to her looking-glass, and
Zij togen dus naar de Melkmarkt en werden luidruchtig verwelkomd door den
she was often very hungry, although her sisters had as much as they
and the more haste he makes to come and receive the princess my daughter
After the wicked queen had proved, as she thought, that Snow-white was
When the sultan's porters came to open the gates, they were amazed to
all the circumstances of her interview with the sultan, and the
concourse of people through whom he passed made the air echo with their
But the good sister received them most kindly, and promised to take care
So at length his sister, with a heavy heart, set him free, and he
have regarded with your favour, will be able to make a nobler present
each a purse containing ten thousand pieces of gold, and six women
apparent harshness with which he had treated him. "My son," said he, "be
all the other ornaments and embellishments of the hall were answerable
earn sufficient to supply their daily food.
When Aladdin had got into his chamber, he took the lamp, rubbed it in
But Two Eyes climbed up, and the golden apples did not fly back from her
"Now you are beautiful indeed," said the woman, and, fancying she heard
when her sister came to wake her and told her she was going home.
--Ja daar is toch iets voor te zeggen, Snepvangers.
the queen's brother in the form of a stag was broken; he recovered his
hunger, putting one of the silver dishes tinder his vest, went out early
--Pas maar goed op, de politiek kost centen en ik geloof daar nog niks van
the lamp, whose slaves will do all our bidding, and restore us and the
rooken, liet het hondje zijn ochtendwandeling doen; wanneer de melkboer
  in 't blanke balgewaad."
die zij voor maanden met zooveel genot hadden verlaten en belasterd. Zij
care of, and played where he pleased, or roamed about the castle grounds
gemengd werd. Drukker bezocht hij zijn herbergen en wanneer hij dan, een
had made my other two eyes close with her fine singing, but luckily the
One of them, however, determined to follow him at a distance, and
sultan."
redoubled his cries and tears, sat down on the steps without any hopes
gekost had. Hij had namelijk met zijn vriend, den verdierenpikker een
magician, "What have I done, uncle, to be treated in this severe
examining the planetary crystal, he found that his brother was no longer
which the sultan and Aladdin ate by themselves, and the great lords of
perhaps you will be able to see better with your three eyes than One Eye
with genies? I never heard that any of my acquaintance had ever seen
hunting-knife to thrust into Snow-white's innocent heart, she fell on
she stood before it to look at herself she would say:
zeggen, en dan is er zoo wat jonkheid bijeen... In zijn affaire kan hij
fancied that this woman might be serviceable to him in the project he
Again they warned her not to let anyone enter the house during their
master of a family so dear to me, I may at least behold the place where
Aladdin had fetched some water, and sprinkled it in her face to recover
"May I try?" said little Two Eyes; "perhaps I may succeed."
en regen soms lichte afwijkingen, zoodat de dames thuis bleven, geen
die niet mij, maar onze heilige princiepen treft... Dank, vrienden,
do him, will gladly do, when you must give him the cup containing this
So they went together, and when the king saw it he sent his companion
uiteengezet. Er zijn knappe bollen bij, mannen die het goed kunnen zeggen,
de stad waar men benepen gehuisvest was, waar het dompig rook, waar men
beg that the private door may be opened at the first knock."
De zaak was een goudmijn! Maar Madame was ook buitengewoon geschikt om met
En de winter was bar, en streng, en lang. Amper mocht men het licht van
with our poverty, and had compassion on us?" "It is no matter, mother,"
off some of the fruit from the tree."
the divan again that day three months.
country, and as he was approaching a river, he fell down the bank with
the vizier, the sultan replied to the mother of Aladdin: "Good woman, it
But Hansel comforted her. "Don't fear," he said; "let us wait a little
not harm me." So she unbolted the door, and told her to come in. Oh, how
leven. Wie niet te lui is om te werken brengt zijn schaapkens wel op het
dronk en over de stadsnieuwsjes en het weer redekavelde. In de buurt
voeten liep. Madame peinsde, terwijl zij de dampende potten in de keuken
before them. The children followed him, till at last they saw at a
beseften zij pas goed hun geluk. De honden blaften in de verte, en 't was
mama, was sprietmager, hetgeen haar ergerde en soms verbitterde.
opneemvodden.
see how much the Jew has cheated you."
In the morning, when Snow-white awoke, and saw all the dwarfs, she was
eager to join his companions.
chooses, she may have the pleasure of trying if this old man is so silly
watching the rest."
soon find out where she was, and said, "Whatever you do, let nobody into
het tafelgerei schitterde licht helder en zij bemerkten dat de glazen
any reply to his inquiries conducted him to the grand saloon, where the
where you will see a niche before you, and in that niche a lighted lamp.
uit de open deur viel het helle licht. Hij hoorde geklaag en geschrei,
the principal officers of his palace, and followed by all the great
fawn, I shall be here alone in the forest, forsaken by the whole world."
the dish untouched, and One Eye could not tell her mother whether little
jasper, agate, lapis lazuli, and the finest marble. Let its walls be
zijn verlangen had moeten toonen naar de loszinnige geneugten van de stad,
During this interval, Aladdin frequented the shops of the principal
her little apron to see the glittering pearls and precious stones
forks, and silver spoons, and such a delicious dinner, smoking hot as if
On the sixth day, however, after the divan was broken up, when the
expired, the mother of Aladdin again went to the palace, and stood in
dachten aan het verleden, wat nu komen ging was de betrachting van hun
unkind and cruel to them. One day the boy took his sister's hand, and
if he would stay in the palace and complete the ceremonies of the
gaan wonen is later nooit gebleken, maar zeker is het dat zij het roerend
white bread cakes on two plates, two flagons of wine, and two silver
het buiten zoo eenzaam was, vond elkeen het goed dat een waker 's avonds
Not long after this there came another time of scarcity and want in
he used to sit."
The next day the mother said to Three Eyes, "You must go to the field
The door was only opened a little way, and quickly shut; but the
She looked so innocent and beautiful as she knelt, that the hunter's
were called, according to their order, pleaded and adjudged, until the
slag of gebeurtenis. Alleen Marieken had vlagen van droefgeestigheid,
schelvisch vóór de voeten.
Van dat oogenblik af werd het leven voor Snepvangers vol belangrijke
their trades. He went into that of the druggists; and entering one of
heerlijk! De salade was wel te weelderig opgeschoten, had geen malschen
piano en zoo meer.
Sinds de kermis van Putte hadden zij geen bezoek meer ontvangen, al die
and Grethel had approached her cottage, she laughed to herself
passing by stood to observe him.
In the meantime Aladdin's mother reached home, and showed in her air and
binnen werkte en ontelbare kopjes koffie dronk, zoodat de meid tweemaal
softening, "do not be afraid; for I shall not ask anything of you, but
--Hoe weet gij het nu al? vroeg de knecht verwonderd.
when he thought that he saw the vacancy created by the disappearance of
you like," and she held up before the child's eyes the bright
left him. "What wouldst thou have?" said the genie, "I am ready to obey
humiliation. The lords who had courted him in the days of his splendour,
chest, which they opened, and found it full of pearls and precious
sluiten en de rolgordijnen neer te laten keken zij dan soms in de richting
bounded away joyfully into the forest.
achterover in den nek. Zijn hoogroode, gladgeschoren tronie glom van
een uil vangen. Maar eenzaam was het! Marieken was het eerst de lustelooze
the persons of repute in the city talking of a woman called Fatima, who
mother's door, the joy to see her and his weakness for want of
them the king of the country.
morning and stay out all day, playing in the streets and public places
They would have buried her then, but there was no change in her
pieces of gold to his mother, who went out and bought provisions; and
The queen escaped from the bath-room, where the wicked old woman had
His mother was much surprised to see the great tray, twelve dishes, six
"Alas!" answered the princess, "I was afraid our misfortune might be
Aladdin being suddenly enveloped in darkness, cried, and called out to
told her in what a state he found the princess, and how she had received
be no other such in this palace, where every utensil was gold or silver.
de hoeven en boerenhuisjes, tot aan de boomen en den grond scheen te
"Alas! child," said she, "what are you thinking of? You must be mad to
"Madam," answered the slave, laughing still, "who can forbear laughing,
Aladdin had to keep it safe, entered into the pleasantry, and commanded
--Ik? Een paar weken, maar op de vergadering werd het zoo klaar
his horse, and attended by his retinue of magnificent attendants, left
op de baan naar Putte. Zij waren aanwezig toen de eerste spade in den
window, it tastes so nice." Hansel reached up on tiptoe, and breaking
austerities, and her exemplary life. Except Mondays and Fridays, she
trouble in trying to do as they offered; but all to no purpose, for the
--Snepvangers, ik bedank u namens den Bond voor uwe bijtreding, die wij
China, and its removal was only felt by two little shocks, the one when
"Not so long, mother, as you imagine," replied Aladdin, "This demand is
Bergen-op-Zoom komt!...
--Neen, dat is wat sterk! ...
Snow-white, went to her looking-glass and asked:
in glee, "I shall have the lamp, and I shall make Aladdin return to his
and tarts, while the window was formed of barley-sugar. "Oh!" exclaimed
well; they will not hunt me unless they see me running, and I don't mean
Amen"--before she allowed herself to taste anything. But oh, how she did
nor a boat--will you let us sail across on your white back?"
maanden hadden zij geen menschen meer gesproken buiten de dorpelingen,
up this window in as great perfection as the rest. Examine them well,
removed in the same mysterious manner as on the preceding evening; and
echtscheiding kunnen beletten!
demand the princess of the sultan in marriage; nor do I despair of
And this jealousy and envy grew every day stronger and stronger in her
here?"
for breakfast and dinner, and perhaps supper too."
each side and behind her. When she came within three or four paces of
Jew, whom I often see you visit; but perhaps you do not know that he is
vertooningen in den Burgerskring, waar de vrouwenrollen ook door mannen
schitterend. Madame, die niet erg ingenomen was met de nieuwe
begreep niet hoe zij het jaren volgehouden had in den winkel, Marieken
Then he said, "Little Two Eyes, can you break off a branch of the tree
magician led Aladdin some way into the country; and as he meant to carry
a pleasant way to keep house," said little Two Eyes, and felt quite
that the offer of them will secure the favour of the sultan. You have a
marriage that day. "Sire," said Aladdin, "though great is my impatience
with extraordinary fruit of different colours on each tree. Some bore
ouden stijl houden, de belangen der neringdoenden behartigen....
immediately called the chief of the mace-bearers, and pointing to her
Snepvangers heeft zich er nooit rekenschap van kunnen geven. Zij genoten
the genie and you while I was in a swoon"; which he readily complied
der stad, waar een lichtschijn tegen den hemelkoepel, opsteeg. Dan
whole pane of barley-sugar from the window, and seated herself to eat
met inzetters en verdierenpikkers, kleine renteniers en menschen van zijn
give me some part of my poor goat. I don't want anything valuable; only
Roodestraat, tegen het oude Begijnenhof, kwam de lantaarnman met het
must be kept quite quiet.
winstgevend baantje van getuige. Hij was een uitgeslapen vent, en de
bitter tears as she listened, and said to her brother, "What is going to
gelukkige echt gezegend door de geboorte van een dochterken. De geboorte
As the door opened, the king stepped in, and in great astonishment saw a
pebble from his pocket on the ground as they walked.
proefden als twee smulpapen van de gerechten en de wijnen, voelden zich
gaan, Marieken moest ook aandringen alsof haar moeder niet meer verstand
suppliant at his divan in such humble guise, to be now more richly and
dead, and gave me money, sending his love to you, and promising to come
--En Marieken dan... dat is de jonkheid, zuchtte Madame Snepvangers.
gelaat gedrukt, wat haar niet belette meid en knecht flink te kunnen
and you cannot too early begin to imitate their example." When they had
--Wat vreemde kuren, schuddebolde Madame, die zich verloren moest geven.
task. The sultan's daughter, who was promised me as my bride, is this
Little Two Eyes went home quickly, and said to her sister, "Dear sister,
--Kom, we gaan er eenntje pakken op het weerzien.. Zoo, zoo!
"Sit down here, children, and rest, while I go and find your father, who
asked them if Aladdin had given them any reason for so doing, and they
collar, pointed it out to the king, and they determined to hunt it.
first time, durst not offer him less, for fear of losing so good a
dichterlijke beestjes, al beweerde vader dat het stomme dieren waren!
wist. Marieken, die niet slapen kon, bracht de lange namiddagen door
In the morning the wound was so much better that the fawn felt the foot
with his vizier, who suggested that the sultan should attach such
--We zullen maar gauw koffie drinken, meende Madame.
immediately, and the palace which thou and the other slaves of the lamp
maiden more beautiful than he had ever seen in his life standing before
vizier to have her brought before him.
with the goat, leaving them behind where they had been placed for her.
reached the door, she knocked, and cried, "Beautiful goods to sell;
of his incense into the fire, and pronounced two magical words, when the
imperfect, to correspond exactly with the others. He fancied at first
little sister, let me in."
stil, doodstil. Slechts de wind suizelde, en op de kerk sloeg de klok.
little sister not to fret, but to go to sleep in peace, for he was sure
Early in the morning Grethel was obliged to go out and fill the great
evening; but they could not get out of the wood, and were so hungry that
Aladdin was incorrigible, and his father, to his great grief, was forced
The next morning, when they all rose and looked out of the window, there
vriend een eindje vergezellen tot aan den tram, want hij meende te
The next morning she repaired to the sultan's palace with the present,
this great plenty and liberality? Has the sultan been made acquainted
  Pray deck out my table."
world besides shall we find walls built of massy gold and silver, and
own natural shape, and appeared before them a tall, handsome young man.
the country, till they nearly reached the mountains.
opgewonden. Madame droeg den regenscherm van Mijnheer, die al zijn
Aladdin's mother, terrified at the sight of the genie, fainted; when
Aladdin his request, and again embraced him. After which he took his
The sultan returned to the palace, and after this went frequently to the
Klokslag één was hij thuis voor het middagmaal, ving dan een uiltje, ging
from a city, and placing him exactly under the window of the princess's
favour of thy countenance." "Your crime!" answered the sultan, "wretched
awaited him with the utmost impatience. As soon as Aladdin saw him, he
On the very day that the three months contained in the sultan's promise
Mijne heeren, nog eens op de gezondheid. Leve de neringdoenden! Leve de
Aladdin had made his hunting excursion an excuse for the removal of his
vogels zongen in de boomen, de wind zoemde, bracht varende geruchten aan
Then the wicked woman uttered a curse, and was so dreadfully alarmed
to which he owed all his good fortune, nor to wear the Ring which was
want anything else."
this, feeling very tired, she thought she would lie down and rest on one
am resolved, one of these days, to turn him out of doors, and let him
short interval of time.
went to a coppersmith, and asked for a dozen copper lamps: the master of
what she has to say." The grand vizier made answer by lowering his hand,
--Och zoo, dat is uw zoon! Marieken, daar koopen wij onze borstels en
neergelaten. Geen belangstelling meer voor de uitschietende twijgen van
round the neck of the fawn; then she gathered some soft green rushes,
discuteerden waarom taling toegelaten wordt op een vischdiner in den
she found an earthenware dish with some scraps which her sisters had
--Och ik weet nog niet of ik aannemen zal!
where the old lamp now is." "The African magician carries it carefully
Aladdin, who knew that all the sultan's endeavours to make this window
counted every day, week, and even hour as it passed. When two of the
verteederde hem en hij geloofde in zijn eigenwaarde. Hij gaf een wenk aan
THE ENCHANTED STAG
festivities on the following day, in continued celebration of the royal
Very soon the full moon rose, and then Hansel took his little sister by
When the princess, her women, and slaves were gone out of the hall,
He then quickly learnt about the wealth, charities, happiness, and
cried out that some one had been upon it. The others came running
ellengoederenmagazijn op den hoek der St-Annastraat waren reeds helder
Snepvangers wat in de hand, zijn vischnet met schelvisch en zijn paraplu,
The wicked witch had thrown her into a trance, hoping she would die, and
the wick and the liquor, and, as the magician had desired, put it in his
now come," said Aladdin, "from a man who says he is my uncle and my
apples and nuts; and when evening came, Hansel and Grethel were shown
"I cannot help weeping," she replied; "for because I have two eyes, like
said to her, "Dear little sister, since our mother died we have not had
In the mean time the festivities in honour of the princess's marriage
iemand belde, vooral nijdig wanneer het volk van Putte, dat 's morgens
basin of massy gold, full of pearls, diamonds, rubies, and emeralds.
he found, instead of his own poor raiment, a robe, the magnificence of
and hence his journey to China. His art had also told him that he was
of his power, and I believe he will not be much pleased with my embassy
thought the request of Aladdin's mother was made to him in earnest, or
Then the wise woman went away. "Now," thought little Two Eyes, "I will
two beautiful little beds with white curtains, and they lay down in them
was opened by a treasurer, where Aladdin saw large vases of different
complain of your conduct, since you did nothing but what your duty
head, had begun to march from Aladdin's house, the whole city was filled
     Who is most beautiful of all?"
have better food than we, do you? You shall lose your wish!" She took up
de vischmarkt gaan.
onaangenaamheden, roemden maar voortdurend en opgewekt het onschatbare
--Ja, mama, gaf hij onderdanig toe, maar met wie?
But the elder dwarf answered, "We would not give it thee for all the
its silver leaves and golden fruit and gave it to the knight.
been ready to tear her heart out of her body, she hated the maiden so
op het lijf.
thing gets her good eating and drinking;" and then she described all she
grand vizier, who had forgotten Aladdin and his request, had the least
herself, "I was asleep."
the sultan's daughter, to-night? She will presently return from the
The private door, which was just under the princess's apartment, was
audience, and affects to place herself just before me. If this woman
and hoped by a mixture of kindness and authority to make him obedient to
said, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee. I serve him who
de dames van in de Zoologie te zien, en Marieken had ze altijd zoo'n
the father lived in happiness with his children till his death.
together a young knight rode by. "Run away, quick, and hide yourself,
the daytime, and the variety of the colours, so dazzled the eyes both of
The African magician perceiving that the widow wept at the remembrance
When he had finished his song, he spread out his wings and flew on
dozijnen pottekens gelei, steenen kruiken ingelegde boontjes, snijboonen
The sultan, overpowered at the sight of such more than royal
when he talked of asking the princess in marriage, she laughed aloud.
dagen, zij werden het niet gewaar, en zoo lang het te koud was om buiten
storehouses, stables full of the finest horses, with their equerries and
dismount.
lift this stone, or enter the cave; so you must punctually execute what
On Aladdin's arrival at the palace, the sultan was surprised to find him
bridegroom, whom by breathing upon he had left motionless and entranced
a palace which he had seen plainly every day for some years, should
Aladdin returned home in the order he had come, amidst the acclamations
het huis een vijvertje aanleggen in cementrotsblokken, schilderden de
En hij werd wakker op eene bank onder kale boomen van het Park. Waar was
let us rest ourselves, and we shall be better able to pursue our walk."
not how to find our house; go and bring him, if you meet with him."
impossible for him to overtake him.
over de verkiezingen en de middelen om _De Noodkreet_ overal te
till they got fat, and then kill them and cook them for her dinner; and
Her sister laughed, and said, "Of course you can have that, if you don't
shop for you, furnish it with all sorts of fine stuffs and linens; and
the palace to be again filled up.
"Oh dear," he said, "do let me go and see the hunt; I cannot restrain
"What shall we do now?" said the boy. "We cannot get across, and there
and as he had given way to her the first time, he could not refuse to do
Broedermin". Een paar dagen later werd hij eerevoorzitter van een
obedience, and disappeared. Immediately the palace was transported into
But the prince answered, "Let me have it as a gift, then. I know not
Aladdin thought himself the most happy of all men at hearing this news,
So little Two Eyes took the inside; and in the evening, when all was
wezen. Daarbij was de bescherming niet te versmaden voor kleine lieden!
dagelijksche zorg alles helder aan kant en vrij van stof. In de
meegevallen! Snepvangers had er een man aangetroffen die hem zijn huisjes
splendid palace of Prince Aladdin. Directly he saw the wonderful fabric,
Na het middageten deden zij een smakelijk dutje, man en vrouw tegenover
night, when it was ready, said to her son, "Perhaps the stranger knows
speech to the goat, and the table came with all the good things on it,
quite well, and as they walked on, the more familiar it became, till at
het krijgsgasthuis aan den overkant der straat. En toen het tijd werd
He presented the six women slaves to his mother, telling her they were
the wood, and saw nothing but trees and leaves, was dreadfully
undo what they had begun, and to carry all their jewels back to the
thunder, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave,
not only commanded them to desist from their work, but ordered them to
home; and on her arrival said, with much simplicity, "Son, I have seen
Eyes?"
dood en begraven waart!
After this, the brother and sister lived happily and peacefully for the
that surpasses in beauty and goodness the best in the sultan's stables;
she had bought a few things, the old woman said, "Let me try this comb
one in my forehead remained open."
--Kunt gij hem halen? vroeg bits Madame.
give me the inside."
asking to change them for old ones? the children and mob crowding about
In toenemenden welstand had Snepvangers mooie meubelen gekocht in
Then he said to the dwarfs, "Let me have this coffin, and I will give
the magician went at night, and, plunging a poniard into her heart,
could not believe the joyful tidings, hastened herself to the window,
when alive, strove all he could to teach him his trade, but could not
"Princess," said Aladdin, "I think I have found the means to deliver you
earrings, and bracelets of every colour;" and she held up her basket,
and braided them into a soft string, which she fastened to the fawn's
had been sitting there a long time, the children's eyes became heavy
money, saying, "Go, my son, to your mother, give my love to her, and
den tuin was de hovenier nog bezig met het planten van boomkens en
On looking more attentively, he was convinced beyond the power of doubt
contented and happy. In the evening, when she went home with the goat,
afflicted me so much as hearing of my brother's death. But God be
frightened, and knew not what to do. At last she began to run over the
De dagen lengden zachtjes aan en brachten de zomergenoegens, de jonge
withered tree, and was moved up and down by the wind. At last, when they
particular notice of what she did, and discover if anything was brought
large stag, a numerous hunting party came to the forest, and amongst
waagde het voor den eersten keer zijn meester te storen in zijne rustige
pockets as full as they would hold.
At the instant that the genie had set down the couch with the bride and
of the emirs of his court were not to be compared to the costly dresses
Zoo werd beslist over het leven van Mijnheer Snepvangers en zijn vrouw
should satisfy my impatience, and tell me exactly what passed between
gemakkelijk overlaten aan den zoon van den schouwvager, die geen lust had
een floreerende zaak geplaatst nadat hij gestudeerd had voor
clever enough to resist her clever wicked stepmother, and she forgot to
abashed when his mother answered "Aladdin is an idle fellow. His father,
drop, when he fell backward lifeless on the sofa.
extraordinary a figure, but the danger he was in made him answer without
her eye, and laughed aloud as she exclaimed:
But it was not an axe they heard--only a branch which still hung on a
woman, but quite different from the last, she started off to travel over
sultan's palace to entreat him to take a repast in the princess's
and vexation when she recognised in the young bride Snow-white herself,
on their way to the wood.
filled the two new purses his uncle had bought for him with his clothes,
--Papa, wat scheelt er toch? ondervroeg Marieken, wier kuur weer voorbij
along directly."
and said to him, "Carry this, child, to your mother; tell her that I
fulfillment of the promise you made to my son." The sultan little
Nu de dames zwegen en peinsden na, luisterden naar de mannen, die in
the sultan, and am very well persuaded he has seen me, too, for I placed
the way home."
After the feast, the sultan sent for the chief cadi, and commanded him
langs de Schoenmarkt en de Meir, door de Leysstraat, naar de De Keyserlei.
op het erf zou kunnen passen. Dan sliepen de bewoners der _Villa Yvonne_
But when they rose the next morning, lo! the tree had vanished, and with
request, and promised to go early in the next morning to the palace of
Aladdin's mother conducted the bride to the nuptial apartment, and he
salon, tusschen ingepakte meubelen. Nu ging men weldra van de schoone rust
sultan, fearful of an insurrection, was obliged to grant him his life.
hoogschatten, zei de verdierenpikker langzaam en plechtig, laat er ons nog
"You paragon of beauty," said the wicked woman, "all has just happened
of the evening, during which the princess had tried all she could to
"I will carry some home too," said Grethel, and she held out her apron,
last for several days, to be countermanded and terminated.
rechterkant, in stille bewondering voor haar papa. Hij was zoo'n
zijn burgerdeugd en zijn liefde tot het volk, zijn vaderschap en zijn
Two Eyes took her goat to the field, One Eye should go with her to take
said, "I am going with you to-day, to see if the goats are properly fed
considering she wanted various utensils, borrowed them of her
The genie immediately disappeared. Aladdin went out of the hall, and
   Who's eating up my house?"
full price, put them into a basket hanging on his arm, and went directly
vizier; and finding from him that his son had been subjected to even
before him, he would not hear a word from him, but ordered him to be put
sultan her father. He then laid himself down beside her, putting a drawn
The mother and son sat at breakfast till it was dinner-time, and then
beasts, and that the fawn had been hunted to death. Therefore when she
zijn propagandavocabulaar meester, en met den verdierenpikker was hij een
she said:
to him, "What wouldst thou have? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave;
doorloopen en bang het ergste ongeluk vreezen Hij moest ook om schelvisch
which the man agreed to. When they had made the exchange, the countryman
"Stop your crying!" cried the old woman; "it is not of the least use, no
recovered himself, he received the present from Aladdin's mother's hand;
many large, beautiful and valuable jewels collected in the dish. He
sooner heard the knocking at the door than he got out of bed, and ran
Snow-white, when she heard it, peeped through the window, and said,
where the lamp was--whether Aladdin carried it about with him, or where
lange vlaggestok en op de witgeschilderde deur blonk de geelkoperen
sticks you can see, to kindle a fire with."
companions, and so the night passed away.
for him and for his court by Aladdin, he was informed that the jewellers
them the window which was unfinished. "I sent for you," said he, "to fit
"Ah!" she answered, "I suffer from hunger and thirst, and sorrow, and
fear, and they asked her name.
buiten...
he asked Aladdin if he did not think it fine; and the youth was ready to
About noon, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on the branch
discover where he went. What was his surprise at seeing him go up to a
weg! Er was nu niets nieuws meer te ondervinden. Zij wisten wanneer
he halted, and looked with wonder and pleasure at the beautiful tree
enkel Snepvangers. Uren lang lag hij met gloeiende oogen aan de ketting
They had gone but a very short distance when Hansel looked back at the
Then answered the mirror:
streets and squares. This generosity gained him the love and blessings
liet de muzikanten in de kroegen der buurt drinken op zijn kosten.
He had scarcely done so when the earth opened just before the magician,
The chief hunter very soon espied the beautiful fawn with the golden
magician. He drank it out of compliment to the princess to the very last
en katholiek en democraat kan meedoen wanneer zij het goed meenen met de
property. At this moment little Two Eyes, who was angry because her
what he desired executed in an instant. The genie then returned, and
resting on his soft pleasant bed!
performed such wonders, and, piqued to the quick at Aladdin's high
ranks, ready made, and a variety of fine stuffs, and bade Aladdin choose
Snepvangers knutselde in het tuintje, las andermaal de gazet van den
Africa, where I took up my abode. At last, as it is natural for a man, I
have for some time observed a certain woman, who attends constantly
mace-bearer, and when she reached the sultan bowed her head down to the
magician wanted to know no more, He resolved at once on his plans. He
woonde. Nog slechts een paar autos snorden dagelijks heen en weer met
Gelukkig dat er nu niets meer te verrichten viel! Zij konden binnenshuis
In the mean time, Aladdin's mother advanced to the foot of the throne,
old woman put her own ugly daughter in the queen's bed that the king
Aladdin, agreeably surprised at an offer of help so little expected,
escape from me again!"
chamber with the same ceremonies as on the preceding evening. Aladdin,
"I assure you, mother," replied Aladdin, "that I am not mad, but in my
But the mirror answered:
ebony."
--Natuurlijk, een jong meisken!... Seffens komt onze jongen een goedendag
charmed. "Well," continued the sultan, "what sayest thou to such a
followed the fawn the day before, "Come and show me the little cottage."
Elk der huisgenooten was als ontlast. De oplossing was gekomen, zonder dat
"What nice tit-bits they will be!" Then she laid hold of Hansel with her
determined to watch himself. The old stepmother, who acted as nurse to
his hand, and hastened to the palace, which he entered at once by the
had passed through several degrees of heat, he came out quite a
African magician, who had for some years dismissed him from his
basins, and goblets were gold also, and of exquisite workmanship, and
met hard werken en zuinig te leven. Zij beseften ten volle hoe zij zich
stretched out her hand from the window and took the poisoned half. But
came in loaded with wine and all sorts of fruits, which he brought for a
lords of his court, accompanied Aladdin.
  "'Little goat, if you're able,
or more costly. They none of them knew how the tree could come there in
handsome young knight, they were overjoyed at their good fortune. "The
that they shall exceed everything of the kind ever seen in the world.
khan where he lodged, that Aladdin had gone on a hunting expedition,
viel nu niet meer te gieten, het regende meer dan te veel, de planten en
Aladdin's mother took the lamp and said to her son, "Here it is, but it
in one place, said to Aladdin, "I thought, prince, that nothing in the
children. When once they were in her power, she would feed them well
     Am I most beautiful of all?"
other people, my mother and sisters cannot bear me; they push me about
horoscope by which to ascertain Aladdin's fate, what was his surprise to
One evening, after the children were gone to bed, the parents sat
beloofde de Notaris zijn steun bij Mevrouw, en meer nog wou hij doen om
anderen notaris en zijn vrienden die een uitgestrekten bouwgrond kochten
She placed herself just before the sultan, grand vizier, and the great
extravagance; but I must tell you once more, that I am resolved to
the thickest part; they will never find the way home again, you may
the house while we are gone."
buitenleven. Het gebeurde menigmaal dat Snepvangers moedermensch alleen
uncle of his, but one who designed him evil. The truth was that he had
slaves who carried the purses he ordered likewise to march before him,
--Ja, mama, bevestigde Snepvangers bekommerd.
The cunning Jew took the dish, examined it, and as soon as he found that
hautboys, and all kinds of music, to a magnificent entertainment, at
trouble, from early morning till late at night; if you would only take
grooms, and hunting equipage, officers, attendants, and slaves, both men
Grethel. They had very little to live upon, and once when there was a
from one corner to another and make we wear their old clothes, and give
dared not let him see her, for she had only two eyes, like common
--Ja!
and to regain possession of the lamp, on which all my prosperity
answering that he had given them none, he ordered a horse to be brought,
behaaglijk zwellen. Wat tafelweelde! Visch te kust en te keur, en wijn,
sent her, and the event which led to his making so bold a request in
telling me we are in Africa I desire you only to tell me if you know
brother Mustapha used to sit on the sofa; and when she had so done, he
den wingerd, noch voor de verschrompelde appelkens en peerkens, noch voor
leaning on a stick.
  Remove my nice table."
and pay you a visit, that he may see the house my father lived and died
en Madame Snepvangers won den bijval met het guitig-onfatsoenlijke:
thinking what would be best to do, for as long as she was not the most
China; where, after crossing plains, rivers, mountains, deserts, and a
--Wel, ons wasschen, Papa!
and described to the king what he had seen.
de muziek die versmolt met het geruisch der voetstappen van de
Grethel ran away, and therefore she was left to burn, just as she had
dear mother knew! Come, let us go out into the wide world!"
sultan, to his great surprise, found the window, which was left
But Two Eyes knew what she had in her mind. So she drove the goat into
stand in the order in which they had left it.
at the door of Aladdin's chamber during the night, and at Aladdin's
made. The genie led him through all the apartments, where he found
gift from the hands of another person. Hence he employed young Aladdin,
Now, the stepmother of these poor children was a wicked witch. She had
Kippen legden eieren, beweerde Madame, al kraait een haan ook vroeg de
  een wreede moord, een groote schelmerij."
So they agreed to have a coffin made entirely of glass, transparent all
genie appeared. "Genie," said Aladdin, "convey me at once to a bath, and
had rosy cheeks, and hair as black as ebony; and they gave her the name
After these words, Aladdin's mother burst into tears; and the magician
huishouden aan schuren en wasschen, aan strijken en kousen stoppen.
know we must all four perish with hunger; you may as well go and cut the
HOOFDSTUK II
sultan: "Sire, I come at the end of three months to ask of you the
leave with as much politeness as if he had been bred up and had always
Zondagen bezoek van oude kennissen en geburen, vertelden zij welgevallig
will not be sorry to find a new one in its stead. If the princess
After the princess had passed by, and entered the bath, Aladdin quitted
in." "Indeed, child," replied the mother, "your father had no brother,
to you, and yet you are not able to gather even a branch."
dit zeer kramakkelachtig werd en hem noodig had.
jongen om hen op te volgen. Dat gaf doorslag aan het voorstel. Welwillend
De President loofde de keuken van Snepvangers; nooit had hij zoo smakelijk
daarna naar de roepzaal, waar hij, bij gelegenheid, nog een paar centen
So Snow-white, thinking no wrong, stood before the woman to have her
so now. The children were awake, and heard all the conversation; so, as
hij? Hij rilde van koude, voelde zich ziek, had hoofdpijn. Scheen het
stem:
  "Queen, thou are lovely still to see,
head. Four hundred of the sultan's young pages carried flambeaux on each
hij in zaken, meende hij zelf wel in vertrouwelijke oogenblikken, hij
other, "There is something strange about little Two Eyes, she leaves her
threw in some incense, pronouncing several magical words, which Aladdin
ander poortje. Zij mochten niet veel plezier aan het ding beleven dat
beiden waren klein van gestalte, en dat hinderde haar en heur echtgenoot.
Hansel tried to hide his fear when he made this sad discovery, and said
which he liked best. The slave picked out one and carried it to the
Aladdin, on his being conveyed by the genie to his own home, requested
kaartje nog om weer te keeren?
--M. Boeykens?...
the court, according to their rank and dignity, sat at different tables.
papieren balken. Doch dat hinderde niet, rijke eigenaars hadden ook huizen
de rustelooze Snepvangers was reeds vroeg de baan op.
clean and orderly? If you can, then you shall stay here with us, and
It was a tiny little house, but everything in it was so clean and neat
"Nonsense," she said; "that is not your pigeon; it is only the morning
suddenly, and would not hear a great many who were ready prepared to
vermilderd was door den wijn, had hij zijn belang sluw behartigd, vooral
full value of what he offered to sell, took a piece of gold out of his
purses threw handfuls of gold among the populace.
intend you. Know, then, that under this stone there is hidden a
gold, full of the same sort of jewels you have already made me a present
zich leven. Een mensch moet toch menschen zien, zich niet van de wereld
verdwenen en nu voelde hij zich danig moe, wou ergens rusten om het even
she, "I have not a bit of bread to give you; you ate up all the
gemeenteraad.
Rozen- en Paradijsstraten, dat wel eens, door nood gedwongen, kleinigheden
zijn tijd met kuieren en met pintjes pakken in de estaminets, door hem
Now because little Two Eyes looked just like other people, her mother
een t schikken, en 't werd avond vóór men 't wist. Vroeg ging men slapen,
mouth water to look at it, but whoever ate even a small piece must die.
him. But how frightened she felt to see instead of her dear little fawn
on his finger. Immediately a genie of frightful aspect appeared, and
tell her that I will visit her to-morrow, that I may see where my good
licht en donker. Het plein lag eenzaam, en de lucht werd stilaan befloersd
of the knight's horse. When he saw them, he asked in astonishment where
meestal het weer aanwees dat geweest was. Ten einde raad wendde Mijnheer
heeft gedaan, bij een notaris gewoond heeft en dus al de knepen kent,
the work was not half done.
Ze droeg veel goud, een zijden kleed en een hoed met binders, zeer
Take the lamp down and put it out. When you have thrown away the wick
usual colour. Then said one, "We cannot lay this beautiful child in the
one happy hour. Our stepmother gives us dry hard crusts for dinner and
--Maar Mama, dat kost veel geld.
because he pulled it out before me, and showed it to me in triumph."
number of wax candles, where a noble feast was served up. The dishes
vreemden geopend.
stood; look, mind, and tell me what has become of it." Aladdin did so,
--Het water rijst me over het hart als ik aan schelvisch denk!
sleep for a little while, and we will come and fetch you in the evening,
rising said, "Well, uncle, what is to be done? Command me, I am ready to
van haar dochter nadenken en het heilmiddel opsporen. Spoedig was hij
that her stays had been laced too tight Quickly they cut the stay-lace
of the bride and bridegroom, took up the bed, and by an agency invisible
enter and come up."
they might point out the way home; but his stepmother had locked the
not displeased at my proceedings against you; they arose from my
their dinners, smaller than they had had before, and then they started
lente, van de komende geneugte. De piano werd niet meer aangeraakt,
eigendomstitels waarde-aandeelen en geld, reiszak die zwaar woog.
so much violence that he rubbed the ring which the magician had given
he fell sick and died in a few months.
--Wij waren ook blij terug in de oude buurt te zijn, en voor Marieken was
door hypotheken bezwaard.
keep him a prisoner till to-morrow dawn, and then return with him here."
Aladdin retired to his own apartment and summoned the genie of the lamp,
trickling of a brook over the pebbles was heard by the children as they
into the town she does an infinite deal of good; for there is not a
saying, "How rich, how beautiful!" After he had admired and handled all
Let there be an inner and outer court in front of the palace, and a
with her to his father's castle. There she was given beautiful clothes
--Wij moesten een bad koopen, een bad hebben al de rijke menschen.
dessert. After he had given what he brought into Aladdin's hands, he
thoughts, pulled out his purse, and showing him some gold, asked for
depends; to execute this design it is necessary for me to go to the
her, the spell was broken. The queen told the king how cruelly she had
's Anderen daags trokken de moeder en de dochter naar de Melkmarkt, De
zooveel hij kon, maar werd steeds meer en meer in beslag genomen door het
Snepvangers zelf, die niets te doen had, zocht maar telkens om de baan te
He had not run far when the king's chief hunter caught sight of the
palace with the same suddenness with which it had been erected. He
In the meantime the loving sister was terribly alarmed at finding the
Now, when the two sisters saw little Two Eyes carried away by the
in alle richtingen doorwroette, hen in spanning, Maar het beest verdween
waarop een gouden bril zijn flauw-grijze oogen beschermde.
who went and purchased provisions enough to last them some time. After
as his brother, always carried a geomantic square instrument about him;
will take the children for a walk across the forest and leave them in
After traversing several streets, he came to that part of the town where
The princess rose from her seat, and ran, overjoyed, to embrace him; but
their stepmother had said to their father. Poor little Grethel wept
father's house, and they determined to try once more to find their way
began to lose all patience, and was extremely fatigued with staying so
her, as he had done before, by telling her they need only wait till the
--Ik heb me nooit met politiek bemoeid, opperde Snepvangers, ik ben van
garden without stopping, took down the lamp from the niche, threw out
oude huis werd de vrijage van den heerenknecht met de keukenmeid niet
the left. After they were all entered, and had formed a semicircle
That evening, when little Two Eyes again left the supper they placed
en was tevens zeer vroom.
The nearer the sultan approached Aladdin's palace, the more he was
little Two Eyes; for she must eat and drink secretly."
enough for me; just look, I could get in myself." As she spoke she
the day before. He then ordered one of the horses to be got ready,
On the next audience day, when Aladdin's mother went to the divan, and
Het was een meer ingetogen verzet; de mannen hielden eindelooze redenaties
replaced in their apartment, when the sultan came to make his
But although the old woman pretended to be friendly, she was a wicked
Grethel, however, guessed what she wanted to do, and said, "I don't know
--Awel ja, Snepvangers, ge doet zoo vreemd, wat is er gebeurd?
and assume a most friendly manner toward him, and ask him to oblige you
him so hard by holding on the rock to save himself, that immediately the
Roepzaal der Notarissen. Zedig en sluw volgde hij maanden na maanden de
dikken sneeuwpels. Teeken van leven kregen zij niet uit de stad, en M.
magician, opened his vest, took out the lamp which was carefully wrapped
his mother to go to the Princess Buddir al Buddoor, and tell her that
madeliefjes, de vergeet-mij-nietjes en de andere, onderzochten de
krop; de radijsjes waren wel bitter, klein en voos; de erwten schaars te
wonderheldere lichtoogen. Het kloksken der kapel tampte rustig. Nu lazen
with the greatest love.
duck; let her take us over one at a time."
viziers, and most distinguished lords of the court were just gone in;
Eye, and said, "Little One Eye, you are a clever one to watch goats;
me to gather wood for the fire." Then she gave each of them a piece of
would, but it was all useless.
tree belong? If a man possessed only one branch he might obtain all he
De vrienden kenden uur noch tijd. De "Villa Yvonne" lag zoo ver, en de
Then answered the children:
He looked down at her as she stood by his horse, and said: "Little Two
of bed, and, when they were dressed, gave them each a piece of bread for
"and immediately there will be a pretty little table before you full of
disguised her hair, dressed herself as a farmer's wife, and went again
off a branch, yet everybody who passes will stop to admire it, and make
the inside of the goat; for it stood over where she had buried it in the
voorkomend voor De andere menschen. Gerust gingen zij dus van huis weg
goed voorteeken beschouwde. Het bracht geluk, al gaven de vogels wel
waarbij ze vertrouwelijk knipoogden. Menig glas werd nog gedronken en
verwerende vrouw op de knie.
CHAPTER II
never stirs out of her little cell; and on those days on which she comes
of light they saw that some one had been there, for everything did not
house, and this he did again and again.
Aladdin, amazed at all he saw and heard, forgot what was past, and
her. Whether that or the smell of the meat effected her cure, it was not
"I saw my pigeon sitting on the roof, and he wants to say good-bye to
Maar de weelde zoekt ook verandering, en zoo gebeurde het dat Mijnheer en
--Maar wat zullen wij met een bad doen? Pleitte Snepvangers.
When Aladdin found himself at liberty, he again addressed the sultan:
was impressed with his good looks and dignity of manner, which were so
to abandon him to his idleness; and was so much troubled about him, that
their heads, cried out in wonder as they beheld the sleeping child. "Oh,
is very dirty; if it were a little cleaner I believe it would bring
done, transported him back to his own chamber, where he asked him if he
luisteren naar het concert in den Dierentuin of bezocht men de feesten en
Aladdin's mother, seeing the sultan retire, and all the people depart,
you for it whatever you ask."
be fat or lean, I don't care, to-morrow morning I mean to kill him, and
little crumbs, and stopped every now and then to drop one, turning round
would have fallen at his feet, held him by the hand, and made him sit
she often throws them nice pieces to eat. Heaven pity us! Oh, if our
voorzichtige aandacht wijdde aan den reiszak, waarin de papieren zaten,
before the grand vizier, the other viziers, and the great officers of
He snatched it eagerly out of the slave's hand, and thrusting it as far
when she touched them, but almost laid themselves on her hand, and she
the house in which Aladdin lived. Each black slave carried on his head a
Aladdin. On her arrival Aladdin was ready to receive her at the
schrik dat zij het rentenieren niet zouden gewoon worden.
naar Cappellen. Tien minuten buiten de kom van het dorp lag hun eigendom,
But the knight felt very anxious to see her, and called out, "Little Two
they gave me so little that I am nearly starved."
the slave of the ring to the neighbourhood of his palace, that one of
absence, and on no account to open the door; but Snow-white was not
mine. Lay one down immediately." The genie disappeared, and Aladdin saw
Het tuintje, een voorschoot groot, bood Snepvangers en zijn dochter
had been the cause of the death of his brother. He had heard, too, all
apartment, left him.
cook him!"
weer liet aanstormen, bleven de bezoekers weg. In den begin vonden zij
cannot live without her. If you will let me have her, she shall be
Marieken moet trouwen.
genieten, nog enkele dagen en zij zouden rentenieren. Mijnheer en Madame
onderwerpen, vertelden moppen en fluisterden zinnelijke opwellingen,
the young knight loved her so dearly that they were married with great
cup, for she did not like to take all she wanted from one alone. After
Then the queen was terrified, and turned green and yellow with jealousy.
het glazen afdak.
  Hij brengt voor ieder verdriet of geluk
They had been walking for nearly two hours when they came to a large
hij van de schoone gelegenheid, van hun gewettigd verlangen om eindelijk
werkte voor de partij die reeds met de aanstaande verkiezingen in het
As soon as he was out of sight of the two palaces, he hastened down the
they knew she was dead. Then they laid her on a bier, and the seven
In a moment, the table and everything upon it had disappeared. "That is
As soon as this magnificent procession, with Aladdin's mother at its
assumed a look of pleasure on the next visit of the magician, and asked
every day that I give audience, with something wrapped up in a napkin;
moeten de liefhebbers ze weten staan. Hij zou eens rondzien, maar nu had
mother and son, that they were astonished beyond measure. Aladdin's
and thanked his mother for the pains she had taken in the affair, the
om de rokken zoo bol mogelijk te doen uitzetten bij elken zwier, alsof
"Het Gulick", "Het Koningsken", "Het Nachtlicht", "De Boer van Tienen",
At last his stepmother said, "Why do you keep staying behind and looking
which was lined with glittering silk.
behind him, as they walked through the wood. This time they went on till
which was a soft warm pillow, on which she could sleep peacefully. Had
for, while you are asleep, they might be running all over the world.
which he had gathered when he took the lamp were, instead of coloured
envy and malice ever can have.
raamde de kosten van plaating.
This action of the magician plainly revealed to Aladdin that he was no
The next morning the attendants of Aladdin presented themselves to dress
to his old purchaser, but that it was too large and cumbersome;
Aladdin's mother, on hearing these news, ran home very quickly. "Child,"
silence, and thereupon went immediately to the sultaness's apartment,
And as soon as she arrived at home, and asked her mirror who was the
light and nimble for them to catch, till a shot wounded him slightly in
me nothing to eat but what is left, so that I am always hungry. To-day
weinig eentonig, zij die zoo gewoon was al de kletspraatjes te moeten
gigantic size appeared before her, and said to her in a voice of
her hand, and the poor little animal went out with her, and played about
have a care that you do not touch the walls so much as with your
riekende kruiden, terwijl een sappige wijngaard zijn ranken schoot onder
head to be disposed of at your pleasure." "I give you the time you ask,
with you to-day to see if the goat gets her food properly while you are
woman, go home, and tell your son that I agree to the proposal you have
thank me for: but while I strike a light, gather up all the loose dry
melancholy. She only cast at him a sorrowful look, expressive of great
lifted from his heart.
room. "There cannot be two queens," said the king to himself, "so
--Zijt gij reeds lang lid?
However, he appeared very friendly, and after a little talk he held out
The sultan having opened the door, went to the bedside, kissed the
konijnen stierven spoedig. Eenigen tijd hield een mol, die hun eigendom
If she had caught sight of Snow-white at that moment, she would have
certain powder, which he named.
the same invisible agency, into the palace of the sultan.
doodmoe van het bezigzijn en de zware lucht. Vooraleer de vensters te
When all the money was spent, Aladdin had recourse again to the lamp. He
wished for in the world."
"Sire, I pray you to let me know the crime by which I have thus lost the
On saying this the wise woman vanished.
en winkelier waren zeer beleefd, en de melkboer en groentenvent kwamen
"Good-day, old lady. What have you in your basket for me to buy?"
credence to so strange a tale. The grand vizier's son, elated with the
--Ja, maar zoo ver zijn we nog niet!
wood near the mountains, where the seven little dwarfs lived. When she
and poured out the liquor, put it in your waistband and bring it to me.
her thoughts, she gave to the sultaness a precise description of all
  "Fair queen, there is none in all the land
said she to him, "I have sent to have the private door opened for you;
Na het souper zat de Notaris meestal nog een uurtje op zijn bureel en
First they lighted seven little lamps, and as soon as the room was full
provincieraad!...
no sooner begun to rub it, than in an instant a hideous genie of
that he was mistaken, and examined the two windows on each side, and
novelty more than the value attracted her attention.
to pass through several streets to the palace, the whole length of the
Snepvangers ging, na het avondmaal, kaarten in "De Klok."
therefore he was obliged to bring him home with him to his mother's,
that the stepmother had been there again; but on seeing the poisoned
las er, onder pruttelend gaslicht, zijn gazet. Snepvangers talmde niet,
  "Little goat, if you're able,
Aladdin ran to his mother, overjoyed at the money his uncle had given
overjoyed to see them, for it grieved him to the heart to think that
rentenier, aan den eigenaar der "Villa Yvonne"!
en nu had men weer geen kommer of zorgen meer, kon men rusten. Maar
to beg for alms. Little Two Eyes saw them, and, looking earnestly in
eersten zitdag en de gemakkelijk gewonnen opcenten openden hem een nieuw
went about his business, and Aladdin entered the neighbouring city.
but notwithstanding the crowd of people was great, she got into the
undressed, without seeing by whom, in a magnificent and spacious hall.
Then the knight lifted the little maiden on his horse, and rode home
"Oh yes, I will try," said Snow-white. So they let her stay, and she was
child, his body lightsome and free; and when he returned into the hall,
"De Gezworen Spaarders", liet zich afgevaardigde kiezen van een
clothes; for if you do, you will die instantly. At the end of the third
which was to last for eight days, of which only three had expired. The
satisfy my extreme hunger."
zoo moeilijk weg ... ge weet wel _De Gaper_, op de Torfbrug, bekend
stands, in what part of the world soever it may be." These words were no
Then the envious mother cried out to poor little Two Eyes, "You wish to
scattered about the room, while Hansel drew handful after handful from
de werkvrouw den boel in orde bracht.
She was in as great amazement at what her son told her, as at the
getting your livelihood. There are many sorts of trades; perhaps you do
het oude danslokaal, verder huis na huis, ook op de bovenverdiepingen, ten
handsomely as the best merchants in the city, and afterward we will open
Aladdin, who was now no longer restrained by the fear of a father, gave
Marieken hunkerde naar haar verjaardag, die in het nieuwe huis zou gevierd
achterkamer stond de piano, in de veranda, die als huiskamer diende, kefte
could speak only the truth.
value, returned through the three halls with the utmost precaution, and
hij zijn afwisselende stamlokalen waar hij een pintje of een borreltje
Uitbundig werd hij toegejuicht tot buiten de Brabançonne weerklonk.
Grethel," she cried to the maiden, "be quick and draw water; Hansel may
Grethel took the bread under her charge, for Hansel's pockets were full
them for supper plenty to eat and drink--milk and pancakes and sugar,
Aladdin had conducted himself in this manner several years, when the
another time, and give me the lamp I brought home with me yesterday; I
the magician and Aladdin.
felt safe, for they believed that their father was working near them.
stopte en Marieken weer piano speelde. Op Vrijdag en Zaterdag gingen de
for their dinner; and as long as they heard the strokes of the axe they
wood for our coffins." And after this she let him have no peace till he
had bewitched all the springs and streams in the forest. The pleasant
"you may rejoice you are arrived at the height of your desires. The
hall, be sure to tuck up your robe, wrap it about you, and then pass
--Hij heeft het goed gelapt, fluisterde de President tot den
waarvan de President mij de eer aandoet aanwezig te zijn op deze betooging
schaduw weg op het kreunend georgel en gedjingel der muziek. De jongens
Early the next morning the stepmother came and pulled the children out
zijn teemende uiteenzettingen, onderwijl bezig met eigen plannen waarvan
Three Eyes saw it all with her one eye. But she pretended to be asleep
with idle children of his own age.
lamp, and might have had whatever they wished for, yet they lived with
time the divan generally broke up, when the sultan, rising, returned to
disturbance of the earth. Returning God thanks to find himself once more
die rond hen zaten. Antoine en Marieken zwegen, luisterden aandachtig naar
handsome and well polished.
    "Mirror, mirror on the wall,
--Ja, als ik den Bond en de President daarmee een plezier kan doen, en
heart, like a disease, till she had no rest day or night.
voor.
te bezitten. Met zoo'n ding wist men tenminste wat u te wachten stond,
drijven. Zij ook kende geen genade voor het straatjesvolk, was zeer
vorigen avond.
Then the wicked queen glanced in at the window with a horrible look in
"But how came you to our house?" asked one.
patience. At last I believe he was heartily tired, for he rose up
and sat down by her son on the sofa, saying, "I expect now that you
behaviour and liberality the affections of the people.
cooperatieven en naamlooze maatschappijen, willen de nering bevorderen,
which held quite as much as Hansel's pockets.
a slave to take it and make the exchange. The slave obeyed, went out of
journey, I made the necessary preparations, and set out. Nothing ever
letters of gold her name on the lid, and that she was the daughter of a
Full of joy, the king's son approached her, and said, "Dear Snow-white,
slaves, each carrying on her head a different dress for Aladdin's
Het leven was schoon in zijn effen uitzicht, zonder ontroering, zonder
her slaves, and that the dresses they had brought were for her use. Of
he knew that none but the genies, the slaves of the lamp, could have
said the shortest grace she knew--"Pray God be our guest for all time.
her, "Princess, you must take your part in the scheme which I propose
bread, and said, "You must keep that to eat for your dinner, and don't
verrukking, nu was hij gered, nu kwam alles in orde. Hij had immers zijn
gevleide Snepvangers.
used all the jewels the sultan had, and borrowed of the vizier, but yet
to eat, and wished she would give him his breakfast. "Alas! child," said
comes to our next audience, do not fail to call her, that I may hear
u gedacht!... Dat was nu iets voor Snepvangers, iemand die zelf affaire
will go and sell it, and the money I shall get for it will serve both
--Dat weet ik niet, mama; ik ben onafhankelijk, ik ken veel menschen, ik
Tegenover de zondagbezoekers gewaagden zij nooit van deze kleine
Madame verlangde het, zoo leek hij wat grooter en... voornamer. Want
van het kind kostte bijna het leven aan de moeder. Maanden verbleef
cask, and the knight was astonished to find her so beautiful.
the hand, and the white pebble stones, which glittered like newly-coined
yellow; in short, there was fruit of all colours. The white were pearls;
niet aannemen, ik houd van de rust, ik houd veel van de rust... dat moeten
full as it could hold.
had received from the sultan's own mouth; and that she was to come to
supper every day, and all that has been put for her has been wasted; she
present? Is it not worthy of the princess my daughter? And ought I not
After having prostrated herself, she made answer, in reply to the
required. This infamous magician, the basest of men, was the sole cause
lichten uit, nam de glazen weg.
of the apples, it escaped from her hand, and so it happened every time
Marieken gloeide van trots en Snepvangers stond met milde eenvoudigheid
out of the cottage:
speak to him, but went away, at which I was well pleased, for indeed I
spring the words--
had never been used to such traffic, told him he would trust to his
"Nonsense," she replied; "that is not your cat; it is the morning sun
met haakwerk, met borduren, of las de werken van Conscience, die vader
to the spot whither he had been desired to convey it.
overtrof zijn vrienden in de Roepzaal en daarbuiten! Madame was vergroeid
he left it. The result of his consultation informed him, to his great
zijn danspaleis te vergrooten aan de straat.
beetje zwaar van bier, rook en welsprekendheid naar huis toog, kwam soms
der geburen op. In vroeger jaren ging elk op zijn beurt, maar nu paste
hij nog niet thuis was... maar hij was immers man en meester! Kon hij het
Om de veertien dagen profiteerden zij van een half Zondagmiddagverlof
Then was Snow-white taken out of the coffin and placed in a carriage to
hopes, nevertheless, that your majesty will accept of it, and make it
ging Madame in de buurt winkelen en speelde Marieken piano, terwijl
turbans, excited the greatest admiration in the spectators. As they had
piece of bread with Hansel, for he had scattered his own all along the
to think she was dead.
can."
great attention, and after they had consulted together, to know what
hun gelukkige bedrijvigheid in de stad, waardoor zij nooit het ellendige
nu nog eens, als tot afscheid, in de ouder bekende straat. 't Was tusschen
Aladdin, "I command thee to transport this palace instantly to the place
were of massy gold, and contained the most delicate viands. The vases,
in your hair; it is so fine it will make it beautifully smooth and
wist te amuseeren. Was dat nu rentenieren? Marieken verslond maar al de
Aladdin got up trembling, and with tears in his eyes said to the
little Grethel up to the oven door, under which the flames were burning
bescheidenheid. Zoo had Snepvangers gewezen op wat te leeren valt in de
lived at court.
de mis gingen in de St.-Jacobskerk, wekten zij onwillekeurig de afgunst
balas rubies; the green, emeralds; the blue, turquoises; the purple,
Hansel, opened the door of his cage, and cried, "Hansel, Hansel, we are
house, and while looking round the old witch's room, they saw an old oak
out the limits without interrupting the communication; so great was the
signal, had the drugged cup brought to her, which she gave to the
has told us, are only devils."
supper; she often knocks us about, and threatens to kick us out of the
At another time Aladdin would have been frightened at the sight of so
mother and child into their power.
argeloos er maar niet bijvoegden dat, wat op tafel stond, door den
and seeing Aladdin, immediately opened it. The noise of opening the
knew that if no help came they must starve.
So they pushed her about, and threw all their old clothes to her for her
you know how powerful their aid is. And I have another secret to tell
African magician, "I will carry you with me to-morrow, clothe you as
cursed genie's addressing himself rather to me than to you? Ah! my son,
always on my finger." Aladdin's mother replied that he might do what he
belang in de kwijnende rozelaars, telden de vruchtknoppen aan elk
been treated by her stepmother, and on hearing this he became very
her mouth. A little while after she suddenly opened her eyes, lifted up
run away into the wild wood, and never, never come home any more."
--Ge kunt bottekens krijgen, misschien ook mosselen, als de vent van
it, when the door opened, and a strange-looking old woman came out
castle, the fawn following by their side. Soon after, their marriage was
could not forbear looking at and admiring the tray and dishes, though
--Snepvangers, zei Madame besloten, ik heb er lang over nagedacht ...
he that I first saw called himself the slave of the ring on my finger;
him. "Sire," said the sultaness, "I will go and see her; she will not
--Gij kent zooveel menschen....
De belangrijke mededeeling werd onderbroken door de komst van den
When the sultan returned to his palace, he ordered his jewels to be
bespeuren dat deze een klein beetje zattekens was.
kocht hij twee puur nog levende schelvisschen. Met zijn vischnet in de
by the king's son, who watched it carefully. Now it happened that one of
  vaarwel, ik word soldaat."
At last she sent for a hunter, who lived near a forest, and said to him,
she looked out of the window and said:
princess on the forehead, but was extremely surprised to see her look so
kept it with the most scrupulous silence; and neither the sultan nor the
hand; but I believe you did not hear him, for I think you fainted as
Aan het kleine station ontmoette hij de vroolijke menschen, die dagelijks
is no bridge of any sort."
het volk uit Onze-Lieve-Vrouwekerk door de spitskar trekken, volgden mee,
magician, "those steps, and open that door. It will lead you into a
Years went by, and as Snow-white grew up, she became day after day more
bouwgronden van den omtrek, rookte maar verwoed pijp na pijp, zoodat alle
"White as snow, red as blood, and black as ebony; this time the dwarfs
vereeniging "Nood baart Troost".
om onze stoffelijke--ja stoffelijke, dat is het woord van den
last recovering himself, he said, "It is true, I do not see the palace.
